# VScript Server Classes, version 7.1

Generated by Macosaro

## AI_EnemyInfo_t

Accessor for information about an enemy.

### Functions

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::DangerMemory

Get the memory of danger position w/o enemy pointer.

```cpp
bool AI_EnemyInfo_t::DangerMemory()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::EludedMe

Get whether the enemy is not at the last known location.

```cpp
bool AI_EnemyInfo_t::EludedMe()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::Enemy

```cpp
handle AI_EnemyInfo_t::Enemy()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::LastKnownLocation

Get

```cpp
Vector AI_EnemyInfo_t::LastKnownLocation()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::LastSeenLocation

Get

```cpp
Vector AI_EnemyInfo_t::LastSeenLocation()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::MobbedMe

Get whether the enemy was part of a mob at some point.

```cpp
bool AI_EnemyInfo_t::MobbedMe()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetDangerMemory

Set the memory of danger position w/o enemy pointer.

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetDangerMemory(bool)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetEludedMe

Set whether the enemy is not at the last known location.

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetEludedMe(bool)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetEnemy

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetEnemy(handle)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetLastKnownLocation

Set

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetLastKnownLocation(Vector)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetLastSeenLocation

Set

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetLastSeenLocation(Vector)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetMobbedMe

Set whether the enemy was part of a mob at some point.

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetMobbedMe(bool)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeAtFirstHand

Set the time at which the enemy was seen firsthand.

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeAtFirstHand(float)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeFirstSeen

Set

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeFirstSeen(float)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeLastReacquired

Set

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeLastReacquired(float)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeLastReceivedDamageFrom

Set the last time damage was received from this enemy.

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeLastReceivedDamageFrom(float)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeLastSeen

Set

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeLastSeen(float)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeValidEnemy

Set the time at which the enemy can be selected (reaction delay).

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetTimeValidEnemy(float)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetUnforgettable

Set

```cpp
void AI_EnemyInfo_t::SetUnforgettable(bool)
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeAtFirstHand

Get the time at which the enemy was seen firsthand.

```cpp
float AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeAtFirstHand()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeFirstSeen

Get

```cpp
float AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeFirstSeen()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeLastReacquired

Get

```cpp
float AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeLastReacquired()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeLastReceivedDamageFrom

Get the last time damage was received from this enemy.

```cpp
float AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeLastReceivedDamageFrom()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeLastSeen

Get

```cpp
float AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeLastSeen()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeValidEnemy

Get the time at which the enemy can be selected (reaction delay).

```cpp
float AI_EnemyInfo_t::TimeValidEnemy()
```

#### AI_EnemyInfo_t::Unforgettable

Get

```cpp
bool AI_EnemyInfo_t::Unforgettable()
```

## CAI_ActBusyGoal

A goal entity which makes NPCs act busy.

### Functions

#### CAI_ActBusyGoal::ForceBusy

Force a NPC to act busy.

```cpp
void CAI_ActBusyGoal::ForceBusy(handle, handle, bool)
```

#### CAI_ActBusyGoal::ForceBusyComplex

Force a NPC to act busy with additional parameters.

```cpp
void CAI_ActBusyGoal::ForceBusyComplex(handle, handle, bool, bool, bool, float, int, handle)
```

#### CAI_ActBusyGoal::StopBusy

Force a NPC to stop busying.

```cpp
void CAI_ActBusyGoal::StopBusy(handle)
```

## CAI_BaseActor

The base class for NPCs which act in complex choreo scenes.

### Functions

#### CAI_BaseActor::AddLookTarget

Add a potential look target for this actor with the specified importance, duration, and ramp.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseActor::AddLookTarget(handle, float, float, float)
```

#### CAI_BaseActor::AddLookTargetPos

Add a potential look target position for this actor with the specified importance, duration, and ramp.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseActor::AddLookTargetPos(Vector, float, float, float)
```

## CAI_BaseNPC

The base class all NPCs derive from.

### Functions

#### CAI_BaseNPC::AddSleepFlags

Add to the NPC's sleep flags. (see AI_SLEEP_ set of constants)

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::AddSleepFlags(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesAdd

Add capabilities to the NPC.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesAdd(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesClear

Clear capabilities for the NPC.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesClear()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesGet

Get the capabilities the NPC currently possesses.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesGet()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesRemove

Remove capabilities from the NPC.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::CapabilitiesRemove(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::ClearCondition

Clear a condition on the NPC.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::ClearCondition(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::ClearConditionID

Clear a condition on the NPC by ID.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::ClearConditionID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::ClearSchedule

Clear the NPC's current schedule for the specified reason.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::ClearSchedule(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::Crouch

Tells the NPC to crouch.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::Crouch()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::FindEnemyMemory

Get information about the NPC's current enemy.

```cpp
handle CAI_BaseNPC::FindEnemyMemory(handle)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetActivity

Get the NPC's current activity.

```cpp
string CAI_BaseNPC::GetActivity()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetActivityID

Get the NPC's current activity ID.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetActivityID()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetCine

Get the NPC's currently running scripted sequence if it has one.

```cpp
handle CAI_BaseNPC::GetCine()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetEnemy

Get the NPC's current enemy.

```cpp
handle CAI_BaseNPC::GetEnemy()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetEnemyLKP

Get the last known position of the NPC's current enemy.

```cpp
Vector CAI_BaseNPC::GetEnemyLKP()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetExpresser

Get a handle for this NPC's expresser.

```cpp
handle CAI_BaseNPC::GetExpresser()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetGestureVersionOfActivity

Get the gesture activity counterpart of the specified sequence activity, if one exists.

```cpp
string CAI_BaseNPC::GetGestureVersionOfActivity(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetGestureVersionOfActivityID

Get the gesture activity ID counterpart of the specified sequence activity ID, if one exists.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetGestureVersionOfActivityID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetHintGroup

Get the name of the NPC's hint group.

```cpp
string CAI_BaseNPC::GetHintGroup()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetHintNode

Get the NPC's current AI hint.

```cpp
handle CAI_BaseNPC::GetHintNode()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastAttackTime

Get the last time the NPC has used an attack (e.g. fired a bullet from a gun).

```cpp
float CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastAttackTime()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastDamageTime

Get the last time the NPC has been damaged.

```cpp
float CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastDamageTime()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastEnemyTime

Get the last time the NPC has seen an enemy.

```cpp
float CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastEnemyTime()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastPlayerDamageTime

Get the last time the NPC has been damaged by a player.

```cpp
float CAI_BaseNPC::GetLastPlayerDamageTime()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetNPCState

Get the NPC's current state.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetNPCState()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetSchedule

Get the NPC's current schedule.

```cpp
string CAI_BaseNPC::GetSchedule()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetScheduleID

Get the NPC's current schedule ID.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetScheduleID()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetScriptState

Get the NPC's current scripted sequence state.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetScriptState()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetSequenceVersionOfGesture

Get the sequence activity counterpart of the specified gesture activity, if one exists.

```cpp
string CAI_BaseNPC::GetSequenceVersionOfGesture(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetSequenceVersionOfGestureID

Get the sequence activity ID counterpart of the specified gesture activity ID, if one exists.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetSequenceVersionOfGestureID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetSleepState

Get the NPC's sleep state. (see AISS_ set of constants)

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetSleepState()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetSquad

Get the NPC's squad if it has one.

```cpp
handle CAI_BaseNPC::GetSquad()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetTask

Get the NPC's current task.

```cpp
string CAI_BaseNPC::GetTask()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::GetTaskID

Get the NPC's current task ID.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::GetTaskID()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::HasCondition

Get whether the NPC has a condition.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::HasCondition(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::HasConditionID

Get whether the NPC has a condition ID.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::HasConditionID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::HasSleepFlags

Return true if the NPC has the specified sleep flags. (see AI_SLEEP_ set of constants)

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::HasSleepFlags(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::IsCommandable

Check if the NPC is commandable.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::IsCommandable()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::IsCrouching

Returns true if the NPC is crouching.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::IsCrouching()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::IsInPlayerSquad

Check if the NPC is in the player's squad.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::IsInPlayerSquad()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::IsInSquad

Returns true if the NPC is in a squad.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::IsInSquad()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::IsMoving

Check if the NPC is moving.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::IsMoving()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::NumWeaponsInSquad

Get the number of weapons in a squad.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::NumWeaponsInSquad(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::RemoveSleepFlags

Remove from NPC's sleep flags. (see AI_SLEEP_ set of constants)

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::RemoveSleepFlags(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::ResetActivity

Reset the NPC's current activity.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::ResetActivity()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetActivity

Set the NPC's current activity.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetActivity(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetActivityID

Set the NPC's current activity ID.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetActivityID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetCondition

Set a condition on the NPC.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetCondition(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetConditionID

Set a condition on the NPC by ID.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetConditionID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetEnemy

Set the NPC's current enemy.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetEnemy(handle)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetSchedule

Set the NPC's current schedule.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetSchedule(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetScheduleID

Set the NPC's current schedule ID.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetScheduleID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::SetSleepState

Set the NPC's sleep state. (see AISS_ set of constants)

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::SetSleepState(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::Sleep

Puts the NPC into a sleeping state.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::Sleep()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::Stand

Tells the NPC to stand if it is crouching.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC::Stand()
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::TranslateActivity

Translates the specified activity string and returns the translated activity ID.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::TranslateActivity(string)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::TranslateActivityID

Translates the specified activity ID and returns the translated activity ID.

```cpp
int CAI_BaseNPC::TranslateActivityID(int)
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC::Wake

Awakens the NPC if it is currently asleep.

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC::Wake(handle)
```

### Hooks

#### CAI_BaseNPC -> GetActualShootPosition

Called when the NPC is getting their actual shoot position, using the default shoot position as the parameter. (NOTE: NPCs which override this themselves might not always use this hook!)

```cpp
Vector CAI_BaseNPC -> GetActualShootPosition(Vector [shootOrigin], handle [target])
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC -> NPC_TranslateActivity

Called when the NPC is translating their current activity. The activity is provided in both string and ID form. Should return either an activity string or an activity ID. Return -1 to not translate.

```cpp
variant CAI_BaseNPC -> NPC_TranslateActivity(string [activity], int [activity_id])
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC -> NPC_TranslateSchedule

Called when the NPC is translating their current schedule. The schedule is provided in both string and ID form. Should return either a schedule string or a schedule ID. Return -1 to not translate.

```cpp
variant CAI_BaseNPC -> NPC_TranslateSchedule(string [schedule], int [schedule_id])
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC -> OverrideMove

Called when the NPC runs movement code, allowing the NPC's movement to be overridden by some other method. (NOTE: NPCs which override this themselves might not always use this hook!)

```cpp
void CAI_BaseNPC -> OverrideMove(float [interval])
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC -> QueryHearSound

Called when the NPC is deciding whether to hear a CSound or not.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC -> QueryHearSound(handle [sound])
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC -> QuerySeeEntity

Called when the NPC is deciding whether to see an entity or not.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC -> QuerySeeEntity(handle [entity])
```

#### CAI_BaseNPC -> ShouldPlayFakeSequenceGesture

Called when an activity is set on a NPC. Returning true will make the NPC convert the activity into a gesture (if a gesture is available) and continue their current activity instead.

```cpp
bool CAI_BaseNPC -> ShouldPlayFakeSequenceGesture(string [activity], string [translatedActivity])
```

## CAI_Expresser

Expresser class for complex speech.

### Functions

#### CAI_Expresser::BlockSpeechUntil

Block speech for a certain amount of time. This is stored in curtime.

```cpp
void CAI_Expresser::BlockSpeechUntil(float)
```

#### CAI_Expresser::CanSpeak

Check if the actor can speak.

```cpp
bool CAI_Expresser::CanSpeak()
```

#### CAI_Expresser::ForceNotSpeaking

If the actor is speaking, force the system to recognize them as not speaking.

```cpp
void CAI_Expresser::ForceNotSpeaking()
```

#### CAI_Expresser::GetVoicePitch

Get the actor's voice pitch. Used in sentences.

```cpp
int CAI_Expresser::GetVoicePitch()
```

#### CAI_Expresser::IsSpeaking

Check if the actor is speaking.

```cpp
bool CAI_Expresser::IsSpeaking()
```

#### CAI_Expresser::SetVoicePitch

Set the actor's voice pitch. Used in sentences.

```cpp
void CAI_Expresser::SetVoicePitch(int)
```

#### CAI_Expresser::Speak

Speak a response concept with the specified modifiers.

```cpp
bool CAI_Expresser::Speak(string, string)
```

#### CAI_Expresser::SpeakAutoGeneratedScene

Speak an automatically generated, instanced VCD scene for this sound as though it were played through the Response System. Return whether the scene successfully plays.

```cpp
bool CAI_Expresser::SpeakAutoGeneratedScene(string, float)
```

#### CAI_Expresser::SpeakRawScene

Speak a raw, instanced VCD scene as though it were played through the Response System. Return whether the scene successfully plays.

```cpp
bool CAI_Expresser::SpeakRawScene(string, float)
```

#### CAI_Expresser::SpeakRawSentence

Speak a raw sentence as though it were played through the Response System. Return the sentence's index; -1 if not successfully played.

```cpp
int CAI_Expresser::SpeakRawSentence(string, float)
```

## CAI_GoalEntity

The base class for goal entities used to control NPC behavior.

### Functions

#### CAI_GoalEntity::IsActive

Check if the goal entity is active.

```cpp
bool CAI_GoalEntity::IsActive()
```

#### CAI_GoalEntity::NumActors

Get the number of actors using this goal entity.

```cpp
int CAI_GoalEntity::NumActors()
```

## CAI_Hint

An entity which gives contextual pointers for NPCs.

### Functions

#### CAI_Hint::GetDirection

Get the hint's direction.

```cpp
Vector CAI_Hint::GetDirection()
```

#### CAI_Hint::GetHintActivity

Get the name of the hint activity.

```cpp
string CAI_Hint::GetHintActivity()
```

#### CAI_Hint::GetHintGroup

Get the name of the hint's group.

```cpp
string CAI_Hint::GetHintGroup()
```

#### CAI_Hint::GetHintType

Get the hint's type ID.

```cpp
int CAI_Hint::GetHintType()
```

#### CAI_Hint::GetNodeId

Get the hint's node ID.

```cpp
int CAI_Hint::GetNodeId()
```

#### CAI_Hint::GetUser

Get the hint's current user.

```cpp
handle CAI_Hint::GetUser()
```

#### CAI_Hint::IsDisabled

Check if the hint is disabled.

```cpp
bool CAI_Hint::IsDisabled()
```

#### CAI_Hint::IsLocked

Check if the hint is locked.

```cpp
bool CAI_Hint::IsLocked()
```

#### CAI_Hint::Yaw

Get the hint's yaw.

```cpp
float CAI_Hint::Yaw()
```

## CAI_Network

The global list of AI nodes.

### Functions

#### CAI_Network::GetNodeHint

Get a node's hint

```cpp
handle CAI_Network::GetNodeHint(int)
```

#### CAI_Network::GetNodePosition

Get position of node using a generic human hull

```cpp
Vector CAI_Network::GetNodePosition(int)
```

#### CAI_Network::GetNodePositionWithHull

Get position of node using the specified hull

```cpp
Vector CAI_Network::GetNodePositionWithHull(int, int)
```

#### CAI_Network::GetNodeType

Get a node's type

```cpp
int CAI_Network::GetNodeType(int)
```

#### CAI_Network::GetNodeYaw

Get yaw of node

```cpp
float CAI_Network::GetNodeYaw(int)
```

#### CAI_Network::NearestNodeToPoint

Get ID of nearest node

```cpp
int CAI_Network::NearestNodeToPoint(Vector, bool)
```

#### CAI_Network::NearestNodeToPointForNPC

Get ID of nearest node using the specified NPC's properties

```cpp
int CAI_Network::NearestNodeToPointForNPC(handle, Vector, bool)
```

#### CAI_Network::NumNodes

Number of nodes in the level

```cpp
int CAI_Network::NumNodes()
```

## CAI_Squad

NPC squads used for schedule coordination, sharing information about enemies, etc.

### Functions

#### CAI_Squad::AddToSquad

Adds a NPC to the squad.

```cpp
void CAI_Squad::AddToSquad(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetAnyMember

Randomly get any one of the squad's members.

```cpp
handle CAI_Squad::GetAnyMember()
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetFirstMember

Get the squad's first member. The parameter is for whether to ignore silent members (see CAI_Squad::IsSilentMember() for more info).

```cpp
handle CAI_Squad::GetFirstMember(bool)
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetLeader

Get the squad's leader.

```cpp
handle CAI_Squad::GetLeader()
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetMember

Get one of the squad's members by their index.

```cpp
handle CAI_Squad::GetMember(int)
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetName

Get the squad's name.

```cpp
string CAI_Squad::GetName()
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetSquadData

Get the squad data in the specified slot.

```cpp
string CAI_Squad::GetSquadData(int)
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetSquadIndex

Get the index of the specified NPC in the squad.

```cpp
int CAI_Squad::GetSquadIndex(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetSquadMemberNearestTo

Get the squad member nearest to a point.

```cpp
handle CAI_Squad::GetSquadMemberNearestTo(Vector)
```

#### CAI_Squad::GetVisibleSquadMembers

Get the number of squad members visible to the specified member.

```cpp
int CAI_Squad::GetVisibleSquadMembers(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::IsLeader

Returns true if the specified NPC is the squad's leader.

```cpp
bool CAI_Squad::IsLeader(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::IsMember

Returns true if the specified NPC is a member of the squad.

```cpp
bool CAI_Squad::IsMember(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::IsSilentMember

Returns true if the specified NPC is a "silent squad member", which means it's only in squads for enemy information purposes and does not actually participate in any tactics. For example, this is used for npc_enemyfinder and vital allies (e.g. Alyx) in the player's squad. Please note that this does not check if the NPC is in the squad first.

```cpp
bool CAI_Squad::IsSilentMember(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::NearestSquadMember

Get the squad member nearest to the specified member.

```cpp
handle CAI_Squad::NearestSquadMember(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::NumMembers

Get the squad's number of members. The parameter is for whether to ignore silent members (see CAI_Squad::IsSilentMember() for more info).

```cpp
int CAI_Squad::NumMembers(bool)
```

#### CAI_Squad::RemoveFromSquad

Removes a NPC from the squad.

```cpp
void CAI_Squad::RemoveFromSquad(handle)
```

#### CAI_Squad::SetSquadData

Set the squad data in the specified slot.

```cpp
void CAI_Squad::SetSquadData(int, string)
```

#### CAI_Squad::SquadMemberInRange

Get the first squad member found around the specified position in the specified range.

```cpp
handle CAI_Squad::SquadMemberInRange(Vector, float)
```

#### CAI_Squad::UpdateEnemyMemory

Updates the squad's memory of an enemy. The first parameter is the updater, the second parameter is the enemy, and the third parameter is the position.

```cpp
void CAI_Squad::UpdateEnemyMemory(handle, handle, Vector)
```

## CAI_SquadManager

Manager for NPC squads.

### Functions

#### CAI_SquadManager::FindCreateSquad

Find the specified squad in the squad list or create it if it doesn't exist.

```cpp
handle CAI_SquadManager::FindCreateSquad(string)
```

#### CAI_SquadManager::FindSquad

Find the specified squad in the squad list. Returns null if none found.

```cpp
handle CAI_SquadManager::FindSquad(string)
```

#### CAI_SquadManager::GetFirstSquad

Get the first squad in the squad list.

```cpp
handle CAI_SquadManager::GetFirstSquad()
```

#### CAI_SquadManager::GetNextSquad

Get the next squad in the squad list starting from the specified squad.

```cpp
handle CAI_SquadManager::GetNextSquad(handle)
```

#### CAI_SquadManager::NumSquads

Get the number of squads in the list.

```cpp
int CAI_SquadManager::NumSquads()
```

## CAmmoDef

The ammo type definition manager.

### Functions

#### CAmmoDef::DamageForce

Gets the amount of force this ammo type deals.

```cpp
float CAmmoDef::DamageForce(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::DamageType

Gets the type of damage this ammo type deals.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::DamageType(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::Flags

Gets the flags this ammo type uses.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::Flags(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::GetNumAmmoTypes

Gets the number of ammo types which currently exist.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::GetNumAmmoTypes()
```

#### CAmmoDef::Index

Gets the index of the specified ammo type name.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::Index(string)
```

#### CAmmoDef::MaxCarry

Gets the maximum amount of this ammo type which players should be able to carry.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::MaxCarry(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::MaxSplashSize

Gets the maximum size of water splashes caused by impacts from this ammo type.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::MaxSplashSize(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::MinSplashSize

Gets the minimum size of water splashes caused by impacts from this ammo type.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::MinSplashSize(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::NPCDamage

Gets the damage NPCs deal for the specified ammo type.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::NPCDamage(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::Name

Gets the name of the specified ammo type index.

```cpp
string CAmmoDef::Name(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::PlrDamage

Gets the damage players deal for the specified ammo type.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::PlrDamage(int)
```

#### CAmmoDef::TracerType

Gets the type of tracer this ammo type uses.

```cpp
int CAmmoDef::TracerType(int)
```

## CBaseAnimating

Animating models

### Functions

#### CBaseAnimating::BecomeRagdollOnClient

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating::BecomeRagdollOnClient(Vector)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::CanBecomeRagdoll

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating::CanBecomeRagdoll()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::Dissolve

Use 'sprites/blueglow1.vmt' for the default material, Time() for the default start time, false for npcOnly if you don't want it to check if the entity is a NPC first, 0 for the default dissolve type, Vector(0,0,0) for the default dissolver origin, and 0 for the default magnitude.

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating::Dissolve(string, float, bool, int, Vector, int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::FindBodygroupByName

Finds a bodygroup by name

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::FindBodygroupByName(string)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetAttachmentAngles

Get the attachement id's angles as a p,y,r vector

```cpp
Vector CBaseAnimating::GetAttachmentAngles(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetAttachmentMatrix

Get the attachement id's matrix transform

```cpp
handle CBaseAnimating::GetAttachmentMatrix(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetAttachmentOrigin

Get the attachement id's origin vector

```cpp
Vector CBaseAnimating::GetAttachmentOrigin(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetBodygroup

Gets a bodygroup

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetBodygroup(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetBodygroupCount

Gets the number of models in a bodygroup

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetBodygroupCount(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetBodygroupName

Gets a bodygroup name

```cpp
string CBaseAnimating::GetBodygroupName(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetBoneTransform

Get the transform for the specified bone

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::GetBoneTransform(int, handle)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetCycle

```cpp
float CBaseAnimating::GetCycle()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetNumBodyGroups

Gets the number of bodygroups

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetNumBodyGroups()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetNumBones

Get the number of bones

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetNumBones()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetPhysicsBone

Get physics bone from bone index

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetPhysicsBone(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetPlaybackRate

```cpp
float CBaseAnimating::GetPlaybackRate()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetPoseParameter

Get the specified pose parameter's value

```cpp
float CBaseAnimating::GetPoseParameter(string)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSequence

Gets the current sequence

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetSequence()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceActivity

Gets the activity ID of the specified sequence index

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceActivity(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceActivityName

Gets the activity name of the specified sequence index

```cpp
string CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceActivityName(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceKeyValues

Get a KeyValue class instance on the specified sequence. WARNING: This uses the same KeyValue pointer as GetModelKeyValues!

```cpp
handle CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceKeyValues(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceMoveDist

Gets the move distance of the specified sequence

```cpp
float CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceMoveDist(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceMoveYaw

Gets the move yaw of the specified sequence

```cpp
float CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceMoveYaw(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceName

Gets the name of the specified sequence index

```cpp
string CBaseAnimating::GetSequenceName(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::GetSkin

Gets the model's skin

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::GetSkin()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::Ignite

'NPCOnly' only lets this fall through if the entity is a NPC and 'CalledByLevelDesigner' determines whether to treat this like the Ignite input or just an internal ignition call.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::Ignite(float, bool, float, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::IsRagdoll

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating::IsRagdoll()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::IsSequenceFinished

Ask whether the main sequence is done playing

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating::IsSequenceFinished()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::LookupActivity

Gets the ID of the specified activity name

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::LookupActivity(string)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::LookupAttachment

Get the named attachement id

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::LookupAttachment(string)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::LookupBone

Get the named bone id

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::LookupBone(string)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::LookupSequence

Gets the index of the specified sequence name

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::LookupSequence(string)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::ResetSequenceInfo

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::ResetSequenceInfo()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::Scorch

Makes the entity darker from scorching

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::Scorch(int, int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SelectHeaviestSequence

Selects the sequence with the heaviest weight for the specified activity ID

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::SelectHeaviestSequence(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SelectWeightedSequence

Selects a sequence for the specified activity ID

```cpp
int CBaseAnimating::SelectWeightedSequence(int, int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SequenceDuration

Get the specified sequence duration

```cpp
float CBaseAnimating::SequenceDuration(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SequenceHasMovement

Checks if the specified sequence has movement

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating::SequenceHasMovement(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SequenceLoops

Does the current sequence loop?

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating::SequenceLoops()
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SetBodygroup

Sets a bodygroup

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::SetBodygroup(int, int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SetCycle

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::SetCycle(float)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SetPlaybackRate

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::SetPlaybackRate(float)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SetPoseParameter

Set the specified pose parameter to the specified value

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::SetPoseParameter(string, float)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SetSequence

Sets the current sequence

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::SetSequence(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::SetSkin

Sets the model's skin

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::SetSkin(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimating::StudioFrameAdvance

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating::StudioFrameAdvance()
```

### Hooks

#### CBaseAnimating -> HandleAnimEvent

Called when handling animation events. Return false to cancel base handling.

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimating -> HandleAnimEvent(handle [event])
```

#### CBaseAnimating -> OnServerRagdoll

Called when this entity creates/turns into a server-side ragdoll.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimating -> OnServerRagdoll(handle [ragdoll], bool [submodel])
```

## CBaseAnimatingOverlay

Animating models which support dynamic animation layers/overlays.

### Functions

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGesture

Adds a new animation layer using the specified activity name.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGesture(string, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGestureID

Adds a new animation layer using the specified activity index.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGestureID(int, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGestureSequence

Adds a new animation layer using the specified activity name.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGestureSequence(string, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGestureSequenceID

Adds a new animation layer using the specified sequence index.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::AddGestureSequenceID(int, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::FastRemoveLayer

Removes the specified layer index immediately.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::FastRemoveLayer(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::FindGestureLayer

Finds and returns the first active animation layer which uses the specified activity name.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::FindGestureLayer(string)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::FindGestureLayerByID

Finds and returns the first active animation layer which uses the specified activity index.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::FindGestureLayerByID(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerActivity

Gets the activity name of the specified layer index.

```cpp
string CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerActivity(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerActivityID

Gets the activity index of the specified layer index.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerActivityID(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerCycle

Gets the cycle of the specified layer index.

```cpp
float CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerCycle(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerDuration

Gets the duration of the specified layer index.

```cpp
float CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerDuration(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerSequence

Gets the sequence index of the specified layer index.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerSequence(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerWeight

Gets the weight of the specified layer index.

```cpp
float CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetLayerWeight(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetNumAnimOverlays

Gets the current number of animation layers.

```cpp
int CBaseAnimatingOverlay::GetNumAnimOverlays()
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::HasActiveLayer

Returns true if there is currently an active layer.

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimatingOverlay::HasActiveLayer()
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::IsValidLayer

Returns true if the specified layer index is valid.

```cpp
bool CBaseAnimatingOverlay::IsValidLayer(int)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::RemoveAllGestures

Removes all animation layers.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::RemoveAllGestures()
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::RemoveLayer

Removes the specified layer index with the specified kill rate and delay.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::RemoveLayer(int, float, float)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerAutokill

Sets whether or not the specified layer index should remove itself when it's finished playing.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerAutokill(int, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerBlendIn

Sets the fade-in of the specified layer index, with the fade being a 0-1 fraction of the cycle.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerBlendIn(int, float)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerBlendOut

Sets the fade-out of the specified layer index, with the fade being a 0-1 fraction of the cycle.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerBlendOut(int, float)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerCycle

Sets the cycle of the specified layer index.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerCycle(int, float)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerDuration

Sets the duration of the specified layer index.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerDuration(int, float)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerLooping

Sets whether or not the specified layer index should loop.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerLooping(int, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerNoEvents

Sets whether or not the specified layer index should fire animation events.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerNoEvents(int, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerNoRestore

Sets whether or not the specified layer index should restore after a save is loaded.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerNoRestore(int, bool)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerPlaybackRate

Sets the playback rate of the specified layer index.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerPlaybackRate(int, float)
```

#### CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerWeight

Sets the weight of the specified layer index.

```cpp
void CBaseAnimatingOverlay::SetLayerWeight(int, float)
```

## CBaseCombatCharacter

The base class shared by players and NPCs.

### Functions

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::BodyAngles

Get the body's angles.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::BodyAngles()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::BodyDirection2D

Get the body's 2D direction.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::BodyDirection2D()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::BodyDirection3D

Get the body's 3D direction.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::BodyDirection3D()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::DoMuzzleFlash

Does a muzzle flash.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::DoMuzzleFlash()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::DropAllWeapons

Make the character drop all of its weapons.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::DropAllWeapons(bool)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::DropWeapon

Make the character drop the specified weapon entity if they own it.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::DropWeapon(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::EntInAimCone

Check if the specified entity is in the character's aim cone.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatCharacter::EntInAimCone(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::EntInViewCone

Check if the specified entity is in the character's viewcone.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatCharacter::EntInViewCone(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::EquipWeapon

Make the character equip the specified weapon entity. If they don't already own the weapon, they will acquire it instantly.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::EquipWeapon(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::EyeDirection2D

Get the eyes' 2D direction.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::EyeDirection2D()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::EyeDirection3D

Get the eyes' 3D direction.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::EyeDirection3D()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::FindWeapon

Find a specific weapon in the character's inventory by its classname.

```cpp
handle CBaseCombatCharacter::FindWeapon(string, int)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetActiveWeapon

Get the character's active weapon entity.

```cpp
handle CBaseCombatCharacter::GetActiveWeapon()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetAllWeapons

Get the character's weapon inventory.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::GetAllWeapons(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetAmmoCount

Get the ammo count of the specified ammo type.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter::GetAmmoCount(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetAttackSpread

Get the attack spread.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::GetAttackSpread(handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetCurrentWeaponProficiency

Get the character's current proficiency (accuracy) with their current weapon.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter::GetCurrentWeaponProficiency()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetRelationPriority

Get a character's relationship priority for a specific entity.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter::GetRelationPriority(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetRelationship

Get a character's relationship to a specific entity.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter::GetRelationship(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetSpreadBias

Get the spread bias.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatCharacter::GetSpreadBias(handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetVehicleEntity

Get the entity for a character's current vehicle if they're in one.

```cpp
handle CBaseCombatCharacter::GetVehicleEntity()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GetWeapon

Get a specific weapon in the character's inventory.

```cpp
handle CBaseCombatCharacter::GetWeapon(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::GiveAmmo

Gives the specified amount of the specified ammo type. The third parameter is whether or not to suppress the ammo pickup sound. Returns the amount of ammo actually given, which is 0 if the player's ammo for this type is already full.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter::GiveAmmo(int, int, bool)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::HeadDirection2D

Get the head's 2D direction.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::HeadDirection2D()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::HeadDirection3D

Get the head's 3D direction.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::HeadDirection3D()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::InAimCone

Check if the specified position is in the character's aim cone.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatCharacter::InAimCone(Vector)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::InViewCone

Check if the specified position is in the character's viewcone.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatCharacter::InViewCone(Vector)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::RemoveAmmo

Removes the specified amount of the specified ammo type.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::RemoveAmmo(int, int)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::SetAmmoCount

Set the ammo count of the specified ammo type.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::SetAmmoCount(int, int)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::SetRelationship

Set a character's relationship with a specific entity.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatCharacter::SetRelationship(handle, int, int)
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::ShootPosition

Get the character's shoot position.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatCharacter::ShootPosition()
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter::WeaponCount

Get the number of weapons a character possesses.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter::WeaponCount()
```

### Hooks

#### CBaseCombatCharacter -> RelationshipPriority

Called when a character's relationship priority for another entity is requested. Returning a number will make the game use that priority instead of the default priority. (note: 'default' in this case includes overrides from ai_relationship/SetRelationship)

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter -> RelationshipPriority(handle [entity], int [def])
```

#### CBaseCombatCharacter -> RelationshipType

Called when a character's relationship to another entity is requested. Returning a disposition will make the game use that disposition instead of the default relationship. (note: 'default' in this case includes overrides from ai_relationship/SetRelationship)

```cpp
int CBaseCombatCharacter -> RelationshipType(handle [entity], int [def])
```

## CBaseCombatWeapon

The base class for all equippable weapons.

### Functions

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::AddViewKick

Applies the weapon's view kick.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::AddViewKick()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::AltFiresUnderwater

Returns true if this weapon can alt-fire underwater.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::AltFiresUnderwater()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::CanBePickedUpByNPCs

Check if the weapon can be picked up by NPCs.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::CanBePickedUpByNPCs()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::CapabilitiesGet

Get the capabilities the weapon currently possesses.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::CapabilitiesGet()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::Clip1

Get the weapon's current primary ammo.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::Clip1()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::Clip2

Get the weapon's current secondary ammo.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::Clip2()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::FireDuration

Returns the amount of time that the weapon has sustained firing.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::FireDuration()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::FiresUnderwater

Returns true if this weapon can fire underwater.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::FiresUnderwater()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetBulletSpread

Returns the weapon's default bullet spread.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatWeapon::GetBulletSpread()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetBulletSpreadForProficiency

Returns the weapon's bullet spread for the specified proficiency level.

```cpp
Vector CBaseCombatWeapon::GetBulletSpreadForProficiency(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDefaultAnimSpeed

Returns the weapon's default animation speed.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDefaultAnimSpeed()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDefaultClip1

Get the weapon's default primary ammo.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDefaultClip1()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDefaultClip2

Get the weapon's default secondary ammo.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDefaultClip2()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDrawActivity

Returns the weapon's draw activity.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDrawActivity()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDroppedModel

Get the weapon's unique dropped model if it has one.

```cpp
string CBaseCombatWeapon::GetDroppedModel()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetFireRate

Get the weapon's firing rate.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::GetFireRate()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetMaxClip1

Get the weapon's maximum primary ammo.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetMaxClip1()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetMaxClip2

Get the weapon's maximum secondary ammo.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetMaxClip2()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetOwner

Get the weapon's owner.

```cpp
handle CBaseCombatWeapon::GetOwner()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetPrimaryAmmoType

Get the weapon's primary ammo type.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetPrimaryAmmoType()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetPrimaryAttackActivity

Returns the weapon's primary attack activity.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetPrimaryAttackActivity()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetPrintName

```cpp
string CBaseCombatWeapon::GetPrintName()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetSecondaryAmmoType

Get the weapon's secondary ammo type.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetSecondaryAmmoType()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetSecondaryAttackActivity

Returns the weapon's secondary attack activity.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetSecondaryAttackActivity()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetSubType

Get the weapon's subtype.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetSubType()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetViewModel

Get the weapon's view model.

```cpp
string CBaseCombatWeapon::GetViewModel(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetViewModelSequenceDuration

Gets the sequence duration of the current view model animation.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::GetViewModelSequenceDuration()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetWeaponIdleTime

Returns the next time WeaponIdle() will run.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::GetWeaponIdleTime()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetWeight

Get the weapon's weight.

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::GetWeight()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GetWorldModel

Get the weapon's world model.

```cpp
string CBaseCombatWeapon::GetWorldModel()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::GiveDefaultAmmo

Fill the weapon back up to default ammo.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::GiveDefaultAmmo()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::HasAnyAmmo

Check if the weapon currently has ammo or doesn't need ammo.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::HasAnyAmmo()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::HasPrimaryAmmo

Check if the weapon currently has ammo or doesn't need primary ammo.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::HasPrimaryAmmo()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::HasSecondaryAmmo

Check if the weapon currently has ammo or doesn't need secondary ammo.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::HasSecondaryAmmo()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::HasWeaponIdleTimeElapsed

Returns true if the idle time has elapsed.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::HasWeaponIdleTimeElapsed()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::IsViewModelSequenceFinished

Returns true if the current view model animation is finished.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::IsViewModelSequenceFinished()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::MinRange1

Returns the closest this weapon can be used.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::MinRange1()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::MinRange2

Returns the closest this weapon can be used.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::MinRange2()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::NextPrimaryAttack

Returns the next time PrimaryAttack() will run when the player is pressing +ATTACK.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::NextPrimaryAttack()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::NextSecondaryAttack

Returns the next time SecondaryAttack() will run when the player is pressing +ATTACK2.

```cpp
float CBaseCombatWeapon::NextSecondaryAttack()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::ReloadsSingly

Returns true if this weapon reloads 1 round at a time.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::ReloadsSingly()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SendWeaponAnim

Sends a weapon animation.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::SendWeaponAnim(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetAltFiresUnderwater

Sets whether this weapon can alt-fire underwater.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetAltFiresUnderwater(bool)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetClip1

Set the weapon's current primary ammo.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetClip1(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetClip2

Set the weapon's current secondary ammo.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetClip2(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetFireDuration

Sets the amount of time that the weapon has sustained firing.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetFireDuration(float)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetFiresUnderwater

Sets whether this weapon can fire underwater.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetFiresUnderwater(bool)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetMinRange1

Sets the closest this weapon can be used.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetMinRange1(float)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetMinRange2

Sets the closest this weapon can be used.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetMinRange2(float)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetNextPrimaryAttack

Sets the next time PrimaryAttack() will run when the player is pressing +ATTACK.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetNextPrimaryAttack(float)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetNextSecondaryAttack

Sets the next time SecondaryAttack() will run when the player is pressing +ATTACK2.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetNextSecondaryAttack(float)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetOwner

Set the weapon's owner.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetOwner(handle)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetReloadsSingly

Sets whether this weapon reloads 1 round at a time.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetReloadsSingly(bool)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetSubType

Set the weapon's subtype.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetSubType(int)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::SetWeaponIdleTime

Sets the next time WeaponIdle() will run.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::SetWeaponIdleTime(float)
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesClipsForAmmo1

Check if the weapon uses clips for primary ammo.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesClipsForAmmo1()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesClipsForAmmo2

Check if the weapon uses clips for secondary ammo.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesClipsForAmmo2()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesPrimaryAmmo

Check if the weapon uses primary ammo.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesPrimaryAmmo()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesSecondaryAmmo

Check if the weapon uses secondary ammo.

```cpp
bool CBaseCombatWeapon::UsesSecondaryAmmo()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::WeaponClassify

Returns the weapon's classify class from the WEPCLASS_ constant group

```cpp
int CBaseCombatWeapon::WeaponClassify()
```

#### CBaseCombatWeapon::WeaponSound

Plays one of the weapon's sounds.

```cpp
void CBaseCombatWeapon::WeaponSound(int, float)
```

## CBaseEntity

Root class of all server-side entities

### Functions

#### CBaseEntity::AcceptInput

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::AcceptInput(string, string, handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseEntity::Activate

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::Activate()
```

#### CBaseEntity::AddContext

Add a response context value

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::AddContext(string, string, float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::AddEFlags

Add Eflags

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::AddEFlags(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::AddEffects

Add effect(s)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::AddEffects(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::AddFlag

Add flag

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::AddFlag(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::AddOutput

Add an output

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::AddOutput(string, string, string, string, float, int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::AddSolidFlags

Add solid flags

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::AddSolidFlags(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::AddSpawnFlags

Add spawnflag(s)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::AddSpawnFlags(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::ApplyAbsVelocityImpulse

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::ApplyAbsVelocityImpulse(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::ApplyLocalAngularVelocityImpulse

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::ApplyLocalAngularVelocityImpulse(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::BodyTarget

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::BodyTarget(Vector, bool)
```

#### CBaseEntity::Classify

Get Class_T class ID (corresponds to the CLASS_ set of constants)

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::Classify()
```

#### CBaseEntity::ClearEffects

Clear effect(s)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::ClearEffects()
```

#### CBaseEntity::ClearSpawnFlags

Clear spawnflag(s)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::ClearSpawnFlags()
```

#### CBaseEntity::ConnectOutput

Adds an I/O connection that will call the named function when the specified output fires

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::ConnectOutput(string, string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::Destroy

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::Destroy()
```

#### CBaseEntity::DisconnectOutput

Removes a connected script function from an I/O event.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::DisconnectOutput(string, string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::DispatchInteraction

Dispatches an interaction on this entity. See the g_interaction set of constants for more information.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::DispatchInteraction(int, handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseEntity::EmitSound

Plays a sound from this entity.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::EmitSound(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::EntityToWorldTransform

Get the entity's transform

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::EntityToWorldTransform()
```

#### CBaseEntity::EyeAngles

Get eye pitch, yaw, roll as a vector

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::EyeAngles()
```

#### CBaseEntity::EyePosition

Get vector to eye position - absolute coords

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::EyePosition()
```

#### CBaseEntity::FireBullets

Fire bullets from entity with a given info handle

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::FireBullets(handle)
```

#### CBaseEntity::FireOutput

Fire an entity output

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::FireOutput(string, handle, handle, string, float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::FirstMoveChild

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::FirstMoveChild()
```

#### CBaseEntity::FollowEntity

Begin following the specified entity. This makes this entity non-solid, parents it to the target entity, and teleports it to the specified entity's origin. The second parameter is whether or not to use bonemerging while following.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::FollowEntity(handle, bool)
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetAngles

Get entity pitch, yaw, roll as a vector

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetAngles()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetAngularVelocity

Get the local angular velocity - returns a vector of pitch,yaw,roll

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetAngularVelocity()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetBoundingMaxs

Get a vector containing max bounds, centered on object

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetBoundingMaxs()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetBoundingMins

Get a vector containing min bounds, centered on object

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetBoundingMins()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetCenter

Get vector to center of object - absolute coords

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetCenter()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetClassname

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetClassname()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetCollisionGroup

Get the collision group

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetCollisionGroup()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetContext

Get a response context value

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetContext(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetContextCount

Get the number of response contexts

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetContextCount()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetContextExpireTime

Get a response context's expiration time

```cpp
float CBaseEntity::GetContextExpireTime(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetContextIndex

Get a response context at a specific index in the form of a table

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetContextIndex(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetDebugName

If name exists returns name, otherwise returns classname

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetDebugName()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetEFlags

Get Eflags

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetEFlags()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetEffects

Get effects

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetEffects()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetFlags

Get flags

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetFlags()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetFollowedEntity

Get the entity we're following.

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetFollowedEntity()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetForwardVector

Get the forward vector of the entity

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetForwardVector()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetFriction

```cpp
float CBaseEntity::GetFriction()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetGravity

```cpp
float CBaseEntity::GetGravity()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetHealth

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetHealth()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetKeyValue

Get a keyvalue

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetKeyValue(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetLocalAngles

GetLocalAngles

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetLocalAngles()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetLocalOrigin

GetLocalOrigin

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetLocalOrigin()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetMass

```cpp
float CBaseEntity::GetMass()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetMaxHealth

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetMaxHealth()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetMaxOutputDelay

Get the longest delay for all events attached to an output

```cpp
float CBaseEntity::GetMaxOutputDelay(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetModelKeyValues

Get a KeyValue class instance on this entity's model

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetModelKeyValues()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetModelName

Returns the name of the model

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetModelName()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetMoveParent

If in hierarchy, retrieves the entity's parent

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetMoveParent()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetMoveType

Get the move type

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetMoveType()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetName

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetName()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetOrCreatePrivateScriptScope

Create and retrieve the script-side data associated with an entity

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetOrCreatePrivateScriptScope()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetOrigin

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetOrigin()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetOwner

Gets this entity's owner

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetOwner()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetPhysicsObject

Get the entity's physics object if it has one

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetPhysicsObject()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetPreTemplateName

Get the entity name stripped of template unique decoration

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetPreTemplateName()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRenderAlpha

Get the render color's alpha value

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetRenderAlpha()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorB

Get the render color's B value

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorB()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorG

Get the render color's G value

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorG()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorR

Get the render color's R value

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorR()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorVector

Get the render color as a vector

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetRenderColorVector()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRenderMode

Get render mode

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetRenderMode()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRightVector

Get the right vector of the entity

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetRightVector()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetRootMoveParent

If in hierarchy, walks up the hierarchy to find the root parent

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetRootMoveParent()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetScriptId

Retrieve the unique identifier used to refer to the entity within the scripting system

```cpp
string CBaseEntity::GetScriptId()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetScriptScope

Retrieve the script-side data associated with an entity

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::GetScriptScope()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetSolid

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetSolid()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetSolidFlags

Get solid flags

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetSolidFlags()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetSoundDuration

Returns float duration of the sound. Takes soundname and optional actormodelname.

```cpp
float CBaseEntity::GetSoundDuration(string, string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetSpawnFlags

Get spawnflags

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetSpawnFlags()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetTakeDamage

Gets this entity's m_takedamage value. (DAMAGE_YES, DAMAGE_NO, etc.)

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetTakeDamage()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetTeam

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetTeam()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetTransmitState

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetTransmitState()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetUpVector

Get the up vector of the entity

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetUpVector()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetVelocity

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::GetVelocity()
```

#### CBaseEntity::GetWaterLevel

Get current level of water submergence

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::GetWaterLevel()
```

#### CBaseEntity::HasSpawnFlags

Check if the entity has specific spawnflag(s) ticked

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::HasSpawnFlags(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::HeadTarget

```cpp
Vector CBaseEntity::HeadTarget(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsAlive

Return true if this entity is alive

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsAlive()
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsCombatCharacter

Returns true if this entity is a combat character (player or NPC).

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsCombatCharacter()
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsEffectActive

Check if an effect is active

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsEffectActive(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsEntVisible

Check if the specified entity can be visible to this entity.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsEntVisible(handle)
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsFollowingEntity

Returns true if this entity is following another entity.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsFollowingEntity()
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsNPC

Returns true if this entity is a NPC.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsNPC()
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsPlayer

Returns true if this entity is a player.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsPlayer()
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsVisible

Check if the specified position can be visible to this entity.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsVisible(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsVisibleWithMask

Check if the specified position can be visible to this entity with a specific trace mask.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsVisibleWithMask(Vector, int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsWeapon

Returns true if this entity is a weapon.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsWeapon()
```

#### CBaseEntity::IsWorld

Returns true if this entity is the world.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::IsWorld()
```

#### CBaseEntity::NextMovePeer

```cpp
handle CBaseEntity::NextMovePeer()
```

#### CBaseEntity::PrecacheSoundScript

Precache a sound for later playing.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::PrecacheSoundScript(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::RemoveEFlags

Remove Eflags

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::RemoveEFlags(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::RemoveEffects

Remove effect(s)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::RemoveEffects(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::RemoveFlag

Remove flag

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::RemoveFlag(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::RemoveSolidFlags

Remove solid flags

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::RemoveSolidFlags(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::RemoveSpawnFlags

Remove spawnflag(s)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::RemoveSpawnFlags(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetAbsAngles

SetAbsAngles

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetAbsAngles(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetAbsOrigin

SetAbsOrigin

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetAbsOrigin(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetAngles

Set entity pitch, yaw, roll

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetAngles(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetAngularVelocity

Set the local angular velocity - takes float pitch,yaw,roll velocities

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetAngularVelocity(float, float, float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetCollisionGroup

Set the collision group

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetCollisionGroup(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetContextThink

Set a think function on this entity.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetContextThink(string, handle, float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetEffects

Set effect(s)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetEffects(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetForwardVector

Set the orientation of the entity to have this forward vector

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetForwardVector(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetFriction

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetFriction(float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetGravity

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetGravity(float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetHealth

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetHealth(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetLocalAngles

SetLocalAngles

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetLocalAngles(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetLocalOrigin

SetLocalOrigin

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetLocalOrigin(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetMass

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetMass(float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetMaxHealth

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetMaxHealth(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetModel

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetModel(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetMoveType

Set the move type

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetMoveType(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetName

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetName(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetOrigin

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetOrigin(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetOriginAngles

Set both the origin and the angles

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetOriginAngles(Vector, Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetOriginAnglesVelocity

Set the origin, the angles, and the velocity

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetOriginAnglesVelocity(Vector, Vector, Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetOwner

Sets this entity's owner

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetOwner(handle)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetParent

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetParent(handle, string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetRenderAlpha

Set the render color's alpha value

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetRenderAlpha(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetRenderColor

Set the render color

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetRenderColor(int, int, int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorB

Set the render color's B value

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorB(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorG

Set the render color's G value

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorG(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorR

Set the render color's R value

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorR(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorVector

Set the render color as a vector

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetRenderColorVector(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetRenderMode

Set render mode

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetRenderMode(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetSize

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetSize(Vector, Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetSolid

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetSolid(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetTakeDamage

Sets this entity's m_takedamage value. (DAMAGE_YES, DAMAGE_NO, etc.)

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetTakeDamage(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetTeam

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetTeam(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetThink

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetThink(handle, float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetThinkFunction

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetThinkFunction(string, float)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetTransmitState

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::SetTransmitState(int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::SetVelocity

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::SetVelocity(Vector)
```

#### CBaseEntity::StopFollowingEntity

Stops following an entity if we're following one.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::StopFollowingEntity()
```

#### CBaseEntity::StopSound

Stops a sound from this entity.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::StopSound(string)
```

#### CBaseEntity::StopThink

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::StopThink()
```

#### CBaseEntity::StopThinkFunction

```cpp
void CBaseEntity::StopThinkFunction()
```

#### CBaseEntity::TakeDamage

Apply damage to this entity with a given info handle

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::TakeDamage(handle)
```

#### CBaseEntity::TakeHealth

Give this entity health

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::TakeHealth(float, int)
```

#### CBaseEntity::ValidateScriptScope

Ensure that an entity's script scope has been created

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity::ValidateScriptScope()
```

#### CBaseEntity::entindex

```cpp
int CBaseEntity::entindex()
```

### Hooks

#### CBaseEntity -> FireBullets

Called for every single VPhysics-related collision experienced by this entity.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity -> FireBullets(handle [entity], float [speed], Vector [point], Vector [normal])
```

#### CBaseEntity -> HandleInteraction

Called for internal game interactions. See the g_interaction set of constants for more information. Returning true or false will return that value without falling to any internal handling. Returning nothing will allow the interaction to fall to any internal handling.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity -> HandleInteraction(int [interaction], handle [sourceEnt])
```

#### CBaseEntity -> ModifyEmitSoundParams

Called every time a sound is emitted on this entity, allowing for its parameters to be modified.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity -> ModifyEmitSoundParams(handle [params])
```

#### CBaseEntity -> ModifySentenceParams

Called every time a sentence is emitted on this entity, allowing for its parameters to be modified.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity -> ModifySentenceParams(handle [params])
```

#### CBaseEntity -> OnDeath

Called when the entity dies (Event_Killed). Returning false makes the entity cancel death, although this could have unforeseen consequences. For hooking any damage instead of just death, see filter_script and PassesFinalDamageFilter.

```cpp
bool CBaseEntity -> OnDeath(handle [info])
```

#### CBaseEntity -> OnEntText

Called every frame when ent_text is enabled on the entity. Return a string to be added to the ent_text printout.

```cpp
string CBaseEntity -> OnEntText()
```

#### CBaseEntity -> OnKilledOther

Called when the entity kills another entity.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity -> OnKilledOther(handle [victim], handle [info])
```

#### CBaseEntity -> UpdateOnRemove

Called when the entity is being removed.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity -> UpdateOnRemove()
```

#### CBaseEntity -> VPhysicsCollision

Called for every single VPhysics-related collision experienced by this entity.

```cpp
void CBaseEntity -> VPhysicsCollision(handle [entity], float [speed], Vector [point], Vector [normal])
```

## CBaseFilter

All entities which could be used as filters.

### Functions

#### CBaseFilter::BloodAllowed

Check if the given caller and damage info allow for the production of blood.

```cpp
bool CBaseFilter::BloodAllowed(handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseFilter::DamageMod

Mods the damage info with the given caller.

```cpp
bool CBaseFilter::DamageMod(handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseFilter::PassesDamageFilter

Check if the given caller and damage info pass the damage filter, with the second parameter being a CTakeDamageInfo instance. The caller is the one who requests the filter result; For example, the entity being damaged when using this as a damage filter.

```cpp
bool CBaseFilter::PassesDamageFilter(handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseFilter::PassesFilter

Check if the given caller and entity pass the filter. The caller is the one who requests the filter result; For example, the entity being damaged when using this as a damage filter.

```cpp
bool CBaseFilter::PassesFilter(handle, handle)
```

#### CBaseFilter::PassesFinalDamageFilter

Used by filter_damage_redirect to distinguish between standalone filter calls and actually damaging an entity. Returns true if there's no unique behavior. Parameters are identical to PassesDamageFilter.

```cpp
bool CBaseFilter::PassesFinalDamageFilter(handle, handle)
```

## CBaseFlex

Animated characters who have vertex flex capability.

### Functions

#### CBaseFlex::GetCurrentScene

Returns the instance of the oldest active scene entity (if any).

```cpp
handle CBaseFlex::GetCurrentScene()
```

#### CBaseFlex::GetSceneByIndex

Returns the instance of the scene entity at the specified index.

```cpp
handle CBaseFlex::GetSceneByIndex(int)
```

#### CBaseFlex::SetViewtarget

Sets the entity's eye target.

```cpp
void CBaseFlex::SetViewtarget(Vector)
```

## CBaseGrenade

The base class for grenades.

### Functions

#### CBaseGrenade::GetBlastForce

Gets the grenade's blast force override. Grenades which use base damage force calculations return 0,0,0

```cpp
Vector CBaseGrenade::GetBlastForce()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::GetDamage

Gets the grenade's blast damage.

```cpp
float CBaseGrenade::GetDamage()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::GetDamageRadius

Gets the grenade's blast damage radius.

```cpp
float CBaseGrenade::GetDamageRadius()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::GetOriginalThrower

Gets the grenade's original thrower after the thrower was changed due to being picked up by a gravity gun or something.

```cpp
handle CBaseGrenade::GetOriginalThrower()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::GetThrower

Gets the grenade's thrower.

```cpp
handle CBaseGrenade::GetThrower()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::GetTimer

Gets the grenade's detonate time if it has one.

```cpp
float CBaseGrenade::GetTimer()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::GetWarnAITime

Gets the time at which the grenade will warn/has warned AI.

```cpp
float CBaseGrenade::GetWarnAITime()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::HasWarnedAI

Whether or not the grenade has issued its DANGER sound to the world sound list yet.

```cpp
bool CBaseGrenade::HasWarnedAI()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::IsLive

Whether or not the grenade has issued its DANGER sound to the world sound list yet.

```cpp
bool CBaseGrenade::IsLive()
```

#### CBaseGrenade::SetDamage

Sets the grenade's blast damage.

```cpp
void CBaseGrenade::SetDamage(float)
```

#### CBaseGrenade::SetDamageRadius

Sets the grenade's blast damage radius.

```cpp
void CBaseGrenade::SetDamageRadius(float)
```

#### CBaseGrenade::SetThrower

Sets the grenade's thrower.

```cpp
void CBaseGrenade::SetThrower(handle)
```

## CBasePlayer

The player entity.

### Functions

#### CBasePlayer::DeathCount

Gets the number of deaths this player has had in a multiplayer game.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::DeathCount()
```

#### CBasePlayer::DisableButtons

Disables the specified button mask.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::DisableButtons(int)
```

#### CBasePlayer::EnableButtons

Enables the specified button mask if it was disabled before.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::EnableButtons(int)
```

#### CBasePlayer::FlashlightIsOn

Returns true if the flashlight is on.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::FlashlightIsOn()
```

#### CBasePlayer::FlashlightTurnOff

Turns off the flashlight.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::FlashlightTurnOff()
```

#### CBasePlayer::FlashlightTurnOn

Turns on the flashlight.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::FlashlightTurnOn()
```

#### CBasePlayer::ForceButtons

Forces the specified button mask.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::ForceButtons(int)
```

#### CBasePlayer::FragCount

Gets the number of frags (kills) this player has in a multiplayer game.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::FragCount()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetArmor

Gets the player's armor.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetArmor()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetAutoaimVector

Gets the player's autoaim shooting direction with the specified scale.

```cpp
Vector CBasePlayer::GetAutoaimVector(float)
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetAutoaimVectorCustomMaxDist

Gets the player's autoaim shooting direction with the specified scale and a custom max distance.

```cpp
Vector CBasePlayer::GetAutoaimVectorCustomMaxDist(float, float)
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetButtonDisabled

Gets the player's currently unusable buttons.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetButtonDisabled()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetButtonForced

Gets the player's currently forced buttons.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetButtonForced()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetButtonLast

Gets the player's previously active buttons.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetButtonLast()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetButtonPressed

Gets the player's currently pressed buttons.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetButtonPressed()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetButtonReleased

Gets the player's just-released buttons.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetButtonReleased()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetButtons

Gets the player's active buttons.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetButtons()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetExpresser

Gets a handle for this player's expresser.

```cpp
handle CBasePlayer::GetExpresser()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetEyeForward

Gets the player's forward eye vector.

```cpp
Vector CBasePlayer::GetEyeForward()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetEyeRight

Gets the player's right eye vector.

```cpp
Vector CBasePlayer::GetEyeRight()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetEyeUp

Gets the player's up eye vector.

```cpp
Vector CBasePlayer::GetEyeUp()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetFOV

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetFOV()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetFOVOwner

Gets current view owner.

```cpp
handle CBasePlayer::GetFOVOwner()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetNetworkIDString

Gets the player's network (i.e. Steam) ID.

```cpp
string CBasePlayer::GetNetworkIDString()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetPlayerName

Gets the player's name.

```cpp
string CBasePlayer::GetPlayerName()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetUserID

Gets the player's user ID.

```cpp
int CBasePlayer::GetUserID()
```

#### CBasePlayer::GetViewModel

Returns the viewmodel of the specified index.

```cpp
handle CBasePlayer::GetViewModel(int)
```

#### CBasePlayer::IsConnected

Returns true if this player is connected.

```cpp
bool CBasePlayer::IsConnected()
```

#### CBasePlayer::IsDisconnecting

Returns true if this player is disconnecting.

```cpp
bool CBasePlayer::IsDisconnecting()
```

#### CBasePlayer::IsNoclipping

Returns true if the player is in noclip mode.

```cpp
bool CBasePlayer::IsNoclipping()
```

#### CBasePlayer::IsSuitEquipped

Returns true if this player had the HEV suit equipped.

```cpp
bool CBasePlayer::IsSuitEquipped()
```

#### CBasePlayer::SetArmor

Sets the player's armor.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::SetArmor(int)
```

#### CBasePlayer::SetFOV

Sets player FOV regardless of view owner.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::SetFOV(int, float)
```

#### CBasePlayer::SetMuzzleFlashTime

Sets the player's muzzle flash time for AI.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::SetMuzzleFlashTime(float)
```

#### CBasePlayer::SetSuitUpdate

Sets an update for the player's HEV suit.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::SetSuitUpdate(string, int, int)
```

#### CBasePlayer::ShouldAutoaim

Returns true if the player should be autoaiming.

```cpp
bool CBasePlayer::ShouldAutoaim()
```

#### CBasePlayer::UnforceButtons

Unforces the specified button mask if it was forced before.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::UnforceButtons(int)
```

#### CBasePlayer::ViewPunch

Punches the player's view with the specified vector.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer::ViewPunch(Vector)
```

### Hooks

#### CBasePlayer -> PlayerRunCommand

Called when running a player command on the server.

```cpp
void CBasePlayer -> PlayerRunCommand(handle [command])
```

## CBaseTrigger

Trigger entity

### Functions

#### CBaseTrigger::Disable

```cpp
void CBaseTrigger::Disable()
```

#### CBaseTrigger::Enable

```cpp
void CBaseTrigger::Enable()
```

#### CBaseTrigger::GetTouchedEntityOfType

Gets the first touching entity which matches the specified class.

```cpp
handle CBaseTrigger::GetTouchedEntityOfType(string)
```

#### CBaseTrigger::GetTouchingEntities

Gets all entities touching this trigger (and satisfying its criteria). This function copies them to a table with a maximum number of elements.

```cpp
void CBaseTrigger::GetTouchingEntities(handle)
```

#### CBaseTrigger::IsTouching

Checks whether the passed entity is touching the trigger.

```cpp
bool CBaseTrigger::IsTouching(handle)
```

#### CBaseTrigger::PassesTriggerFilters

Returns whether a target entity satisfies the trigger's spawnflags, filter, etc.

```cpp
bool CBaseTrigger::PassesTriggerFilters(handle)
```

#### CBaseTrigger::PointIsWithin

Checks if the given vector is within the trigger's volume.

```cpp
bool CBaseTrigger::PointIsWithin(Vector)
```

#### CBaseTrigger::TouchTest

```cpp
void CBaseTrigger::TouchTest()
```

#### CBaseTrigger::UsesFilter

Returns true if this trigger uses a filter.

```cpp
bool CBaseTrigger::UsesFilter()
```

## CConvars

Provides an interface to convars.

### Functions

#### CConvars::GetBool

Returns the convar as a bool. May return null if no such convar.

```cpp
bool CConvars::GetBool(string)
```

#### CConvars::GetClientConvarValue

Get a convar keyvalue for a specified client

```cpp
string CConvars::GetClientConvarValue(int, string)
```

#### CConvars::GetCommandClient

returns the player who issued this console command.

```cpp
handle CConvars::GetCommandClient()
```

#### CConvars::GetDefaultValue

Returns the convar's default value as a string. May return null if no such convar.

```cpp
string CConvars::GetDefaultValue(string)
```

#### CConvars::GetFloat

Returns the convar as a float. May return null if no such convar.

```cpp
float CConvars::GetFloat(string)
```

#### CConvars::GetInt

Returns the convar as an int. May return null if no such convar.

```cpp
int CConvars::GetInt(string)
```

#### CConvars::GetStr

Returns the convar as a string. May return null if no such convar.

```cpp
string CConvars::GetStr(string)
```

#### CConvars::IsFlagSet

Returns the convar's flags. May return null if no such convar.

```cpp
bool CConvars::IsFlagSet(string, int)
```

#### CConvars::RegisterCommand

register a console command.

```cpp
void CConvars::RegisterCommand(string, handle, string, int)
```

#### CConvars::RegisterConvar

register a new console variable.

```cpp
void CConvars::RegisterConvar(string, string, string, int)
```

#### CConvars::SetBool

Sets the value of the convar as a bool.

```cpp
void CConvars::SetBool(string, bool)
```

#### CConvars::SetChangeCallback

callback is called with 5 parameters (var, szOldValue, flOldValue, szNewValue, flNewValue)

```cpp
void CConvars::SetChangeCallback(string, handle)
```

#### CConvars::SetCompletionCallback

callback is called with 3 parameters (cmd, partial, commands), user strings must be appended to 'commands' array

```cpp
void CConvars::SetCompletionCallback(string, handle)
```

#### CConvars::SetFloat

Sets the value of the convar as a float.

```cpp
void CConvars::SetFloat(string, float)
```

#### CConvars::SetInt

Sets the value of the convar as an int.

```cpp
void CConvars::SetInt(string, int)
```

#### CConvars::SetStr

Sets the value of the convar as a string.

```cpp
void CConvars::SetStr(string, string)
```

#### CConvars::UnregisterCommand

unregister a console command.

```cpp
void CConvars::UnregisterCommand(string)
```

## CDebugOverlayScriptHelper

CDebugOverlayScriptHelper

### Functions

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Axis

Draws an axis. Specify origin + orientation in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Axis(Vector, Vector, float, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Box

Draws a world-space axis-aligned box. Specify bounds in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Box(Vector, Vector, Vector, int, int, int, int, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::BoxAngles

Draws an oriented box at the origin. Specify bounds in local space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::BoxAngles(Vector, Vector, Vector, Vector, int, int, int, int, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::BoxDirection

Draw box oriented to a Vector direction

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::BoxDirection(Vector, Vector, Vector, Vector, int, int, int, int, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Circle

Draws a circle. Specify center in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Circle(Vector, Vector, Vector, float, int, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::CircleOriented

Draws a circle oriented. Specify center in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::CircleOriented(Vector, Vector, float, int, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::ClearAllOverlays

Clear all debug overlays at once

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::ClearAllOverlays()
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Cross3D

Draws a world-aligned cross. Specify origin in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Cross3D(Vector, float, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Cross3DOriented

Draws an oriented cross. Specify origin in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Cross3DOriented(Vector, Vector, float, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::DrawTickMarkedLine

Draws a dashed line. Specify endpoints in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::DrawTickMarkedLine(Vector, Vector, float, int, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::EntityBounds

Draws bounds of an entity

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::EntityBounds(handle, int, int, int, int, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::EntityText

Draws text on an entity

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::EntityText(int, int, string, float, int, int, int, int)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::EntityTextAtPosition

Draw entity text overlay at a specific position

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::EntityTextAtPosition(Vector, int, string, float, int, int, int, int)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Grid

Add grid overlay

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Grid(Vector)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::HorzArrow

Draws a horizontal arrow. Specify endpoints in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::HorzArrow(Vector, Vector, float, int, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Line

Draws a line between two points

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Line(Vector, Vector, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::ScreenText

Draws 2D text. Specify coordinates in screen space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::ScreenText(float, float, string, int, int, int, int, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::SetDebugBits

Set debug bits on entity

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::SetDebugBits(handle, int)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Sphere

Draws a wireframe sphere. Specify center in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Sphere(Vector, float, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::SweptBox

Draws a swept box. Specify endpoints in world space and the bounds in local space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::SweptBox(Vector, Vector, Vector, Vector, Vector, int, int, int, int, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Text

Draws 2D text. Specify origin in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Text(Vector, string, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Triangle

Draws a filled triangle. Specify vertices in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::Triangle(Vector, Vector, Vector, int, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::VertArrow

Draws a vertical arrow. Specify endpoints in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::VertArrow(Vector, Vector, float, int, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

#### CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::YawArrow

Draws a arrow associated with a specific yaw. Specify endpoints in world space.

```cpp
void CDebugOverlayScriptHelper::YawArrow(Vector, float, float, float, int, int, int, int, bool, float)
```

## CEntities

The global list of entities

### Functions

#### CEntities::AddCustomProcedural

Adds a custom '!' target name. The first parameter is the name of the procedural (which should NOT include the '!'), the second parameter is a function which should support 5 arguments (name, startEntity, searchingEntity, activator, caller), and the third parameter is whether or not this procedural can return multiple entities. Note that these are NOT saved and must be redeclared on restore!

```cpp
void CEntities::AddCustomProcedural(string, handle, bool)
```

#### CEntities::CreateByClassname

Creates an entity by classname

```cpp
handle CEntities::CreateByClassname(string)
```

#### CEntities::DisableEntityListening

Disables the 'OnEntity' hooks.

```cpp
void CEntities::DisableEntityListening()
```

#### CEntities::EnableEntityListening

Enables the 'OnEntity' hooks. This function must be called before using them.

```cpp
void CEntities::EnableEntityListening()
```

#### CEntities::FindByClassNearestFacing

Find the nearest entity along the facing direction from the given origin within the angular threshold with the given classname.

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByClassNearestFacing(Vector, Vector, float, string)
```

#### CEntities::FindByClassname

Find entities by class name. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByClassname(handle, string)
```

#### CEntities::FindByClassnameNearest

Find entities by class name nearest to a point.

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByClassnameNearest(string, Vector, float)
```

#### CEntities::FindByClassnameNearest2D

Find entities by class name nearest to a point in 2D space.

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByClassnameNearest2D(string, Vector, float)
```

#### CEntities::FindByClassnameWithin

Find entities by class name within a radius. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByClassnameWithin(handle, string, Vector, float)
```

#### CEntities::FindByClassnameWithinBox

Find entities by class name within an AABB. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByClassnameWithinBox(handle, string, Vector, Vector)
```

#### CEntities::FindByModel

Find entities by model name. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByModel(handle, string)
```

#### CEntities::FindByName

Find entities by name. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByName(handle, string)
```

#### CEntities::FindByNameNearest

Find entities by name nearest to a point.

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByNameNearest(string, Vector, float)
```

#### CEntities::FindByNameWithin

Find entities by name within a radius. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByNameWithin(handle, string, Vector, float)
```

#### CEntities::FindByTarget

Find entities by targetname. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindByTarget(handle, string)
```

#### CEntities::FindInSphere

Find entities within a radius. Pass 'null' to start an iteration, or reference to a previously found entity to continue a search

```cpp
handle CEntities::FindInSphere(handle, Vector, float)
```

#### CEntities::First

Begin an iteration over the list of entities

```cpp
handle CEntities::First()
```

#### CEntities::GetLocalPlayer

Get local player or listen server host

```cpp
handle CEntities::GetLocalPlayer()
```

#### CEntities::Next

Continue an iteration over the list of entities, providing reference to a previously found entity

```cpp
handle CEntities::Next(handle)
```

#### CEntities::RemoveCustomProcedural

Removes a custom '!' target name previously defined with AddCustomProcedural.

```cpp
void CEntities::RemoveCustomProcedural(string)
```

### Hooks

#### CEntities -> OnEntityCreated

Called when an entity is created. Requires EnableEntityListening() to be fired beforehand.

```cpp
void CEntities -> OnEntityCreated(handle [entity])
```

#### CEntities -> OnEntityDeleted

Called when an entity is deleted. Requires EnableEntityListening() to be fired beforehand.

```cpp
void CEntities -> OnEntityDeleted(handle [entity])
```

#### CEntities -> OnEntitySpawned

Called when an entity spawns. Requires EnableEntityListening() to be fired beforehand.

```cpp
void CEntities -> OnEntitySpawned(handle [entity])
```

## CEnvEntityMaker

env_entity_maker

### Functions

#### CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntity

Create an entity at the location of the maker

```cpp
void CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntity()
```

#### CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntityAtEntityOrigin

Create an entity at the location of a specified entity instance

```cpp
void CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntityAtEntityOrigin(handle)
```

#### CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntityAtLocation

Create an entity at a specified location and orientaton, orientation is Euler angle in degrees (pitch, yaw, roll)

```cpp
void CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntityAtLocation(Vector, Vector)
```

#### CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntityAtNamedEntityOrigin

Create an entity at the location of a named entity

```cpp
void CEnvEntityMaker::SpawnEntityAtNamedEntityOrigin(string)
```

## CFilterScript

The filter_script entity which allows VScript functions to hook onto filter methods.

### Hooks

#### CFilterScript -> BloodAllowed

A completely optional hook used by filter_script to determine if a caller is allowed to emit blood after taking damage. Return true if blood should be allowed or false if it should not. If this hook is not defined, it will always return true.

```cpp
bool CFilterScript -> BloodAllowed(handle [caller], handle [info])
```

#### CFilterScript -> DamageMod

A completely optional hook used by filter_script to modify damage being taken by an entity. You are free to use CTakeDamageInfo functions on the damage info handle and it will change how the caller is damaged. Returning true or false currently has no effect on vanilla code, but you should generally return true if the damage info has been modified by your code and false if it was not. If this hook is not defined, it will always return false.

```cpp
bool CFilterScript -> DamageMod(handle [caller], handle [info])
```

#### CFilterScript -> PassesDamageFilter

A hook used by filter_script to determine what damage should pass it when it's being used as a damage filter. Return true if the info should pass or false if it should not. If this hook is not defined in a filter_script, damage filter requests will instead check PassesFilter with the attacker as the activator.

```cpp
bool CFilterScript -> PassesDamageFilter(handle [caller], handle [info])
```

#### CFilterScript -> PassesFilter

A hook used by filter_script to determine what entities should pass it. Return true if the entity should pass or false if it should not. This hook is required for regular filtering.

```cpp
bool CFilterScript -> PassesFilter(handle [caller], handle [activator])
```

#### CFilterScript -> PassesFinalDamageFilter

A completely optional hook used by filter_script which only runs when the entity will take damage. This is different from PassesDamageFilter, which is sometimes used in cases where damage is not actually about to be taken. This also runs after a regular PassesDamageFilter check. Return true if the info should pass or false if it should not. If this hook is not defined, it will always return true.

```cpp
bool CFilterScript -> PassesFinalDamageFilter(handle [caller], handle [info])
```

## CFourWheelVehiclePhysics

Handler for four-wheel vehicle physics.

### Functions

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::BoostTimeLeft

Gets how much time is left in any current boost.

```cpp
int CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::BoostTimeLeft()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::DisableMotion

Disables vehicle motion.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::DisableMotion()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::EnableMotion

Enables vehicle motion.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::EnableMotion()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetHLSpeed

Gets HL speed.

```cpp
float CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetHLSpeed()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetMaxSpeed

Gets the max speed.

```cpp
int CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetMaxSpeed()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetRPM

Gets the RPM.

```cpp
int CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetRPM()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetSpeed

Gets the speed.

```cpp
int CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetSpeed()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetSteering

Gets the steeering.

```cpp
float CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetSteering()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetSteeringDegrees

Gets the degrees of steeering.

```cpp
float CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetSteeringDegrees()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetThrottle

Gets the throttle.

```cpp
float CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::GetThrottle()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::HasBoost

Checks if the vehicle has the ability to boost.

```cpp
bool CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::HasBoost()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::IsBoosting

Checks if the vehicle is boosting.

```cpp
bool CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::IsBoosting()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::IsEngineDisabled

Checks whether the engine is disabled.

```cpp
bool CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::IsEngineDisabled()
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetAction

Sets the action.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetAction(float)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetBoost

Sets the boost.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetBoost(float)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetDisableEngine

Sets whether the engine is disabled.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetDisableEngine(bool)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetHandbrake

Sets the handbrake.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetHandbrake(bool)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetHasBrakePedal

Sets whether a handbrake pedal exists.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetHasBrakePedal(bool)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetMaxReverseThrottle

Sets the max reverse throttle.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetMaxReverseThrottle(float)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetMaxThrottle

Sets the max throttle.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetMaxThrottle(float)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetSteering

Sets the steering.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetSteering(float, float)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetSteeringDegrees

Sets the degrees of steering.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetSteeringDegrees(float)
```

#### CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetThrottle

Sets the throttle.

```cpp
void CFourWheelVehiclePhysics::SetThrottle(float)
```

## CGameRules

The container of the game's rules, handling behavior which could be different on a game-by-game basis.

### Functions

#### CGameRules::AllowFlashlight

Returns true if players are allowed to switch on their flashlight.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::AllowFlashlight()
```

#### CGameRules::AllowNPCs

Returns true if NPCs are allowed.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::AllowNPCs()
```

#### CGameRules::AllowSPRespawn

```cpp
bool CGameRules::AllowSPRespawn()
```

#### CGameRules::AllowThirdPersonCamera

Returns true if third-person camera is allowed.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::AllowThirdPersonCamera()
```

#### CGameRules::Damage_IsTimeBased

Damage types that are time-based.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::Damage_IsTimeBased(int)
```

#### CGameRules::Damage_NoPhysicsForce

Damage types that don't have to supply a physics force & position.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::Damage_NoPhysicsForce(int)
```

#### CGameRules::Damage_ShouldGibCorpse

Damage types that gib the corpse.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::Damage_ShouldGibCorpse(int)
```

#### CGameRules::Damage_ShouldNotBleed

Damage types that don't make the player bleed.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::Damage_ShouldNotBleed(int)
```

#### CGameRules::Damage_ShowOnHUD

Damage types that have client HUD art.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::Damage_ShowOnHUD(int)
```

#### CGameRules::DefaultFOV

Default player FOV in this game.

```cpp
int CGameRules::DefaultFOV()
```

#### CGameRules::GetDamageMultiplier

Ammo type damage multiplier.

```cpp
float CGameRules::GetDamageMultiplier()
```

#### CGameRules::GetGameDescription

This is the game description that gets seen in server browsers.

```cpp
string CGameRules::GetGameDescription()
```

#### CGameRules::GetGameType

```cpp
int CGameRules::GetGameType()
```

#### CGameRules::GetGameTypeName

```cpp
string CGameRules::GetGameTypeName()
```

#### CGameRules::GetSkillLevel

Returns the game's difficulty/skill level.

```cpp
int CGameRules::GetSkillLevel()
```

#### CGameRules::InRoundRestart

Returns true if the round is restarting.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::InRoundRestart()
```

#### CGameRules::IsCoOp

```cpp
bool CGameRules::IsCoOp()
```

#### CGameRules::IsDeathmatch

```cpp
bool CGameRules::IsDeathmatch()
```

#### CGameRules::IsMultiplayer

Returns true if this is a multiplayer game (like co-op or deathmatch).

```cpp
bool CGameRules::IsMultiplayer()
```

#### CGameRules::IsSkillLevel

Returns true if the game is set to the specified difficulty/skill level.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::IsSkillLevel(int)
```

#### CGameRules::IsTeamplay

```cpp
bool CGameRules::IsTeamplay()
```

#### CGameRules::Name

Gets the name of these rules.

```cpp
string CGameRules::Name()
```

#### CGameRules::RefreshSkillData

```cpp
void CGameRules::RefreshSkillData(bool)
```

#### CGameRules::SetSkillLevel

Sets the game's difficulty/skill level.

```cpp
void CGameRules::SetSkillLevel(int)
```

#### CGameRules::ShouldCollide

Returns whether two collision groups collide with each other in this game.

```cpp
bool CGameRules::ShouldCollide(int, int)
```

## CGameTrace

trace_t

### Functions

#### CGameTrace::AllSolid

Returns whether the trace is completely within a solid.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::AllSolid()
```

#### CGameTrace::Contents

Gets the contents of the surface the trace has hit.

```cpp
int CGameTrace::Contents()
```

#### CGameTrace::Destroy

Deletes this instance. Important for preventing memory leaks.

```cpp
void CGameTrace::Destroy()
```

#### CGameTrace::DidHit

Returns whether the trace hit anything.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::DidHit()
```

#### CGameTrace::DidHitNonWorldEntity

Returns whether the trace hit something other than the world entity.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::DidHitNonWorldEntity()
```

#### CGameTrace::DidHitWorld

Returns whether the trace hit the world entity or not.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::DidHitWorld()
```

#### CGameTrace::DispFlags

Gets the displacement flags of the surface the trace has hit.

```cpp
int CGameTrace::DispFlags()
```

#### CGameTrace::EndPos

Gets the trace's end position.

```cpp
Vector CGameTrace::EndPos()
```

#### CGameTrace::Entity

Returns the entity this trace has hit.

```cpp
handle CGameTrace::Entity()
```

#### CGameTrace::Fraction

Gets the fraction of the trace completed. For example, if the trace stopped exactly halfway to the end position, this would be 0.5.

```cpp
float CGameTrace::Fraction()
```

#### CGameTrace::FractionLeftSolid

If this trace started within a solid, this is the point in the trace's fraction at which it left that solid.

```cpp
float CGameTrace::FractionLeftSolid()
```

#### CGameTrace::GetEntityIndex

Returns the index of whatever entity this trace hit.

```cpp
int CGameTrace::GetEntityIndex()
```

#### CGameTrace::HitBox

Returns the hitbox of the entity this trace has hit. If it hit the world entity, this returns the static prop index.

```cpp
int CGameTrace::HitBox()
```

#### CGameTrace::HitGroup

Returns the specific hit group this trace hit if it hit an entity.

```cpp
int CGameTrace::HitGroup()
```

#### CGameTrace::IsDispSurface

Returns whether this trace hit a displacement.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::IsDispSurface()
```

#### CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceBuildable

Returns whether DISPSURF_FLAG_BUILDABLE is ticked on the displacement this trace hit.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceBuildable()
```

#### CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceProp1

Returns whether DISPSURF_FLAG_SURFPROP1 is ticked on the displacement this trace hit.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceProp1()
```

#### CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceProp2

Returns whether DISPSURF_FLAG_SURFPROP2 is ticked on the displacement this trace hit.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceProp2()
```

#### CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceWalkable

Returns whether DISPSURF_FLAG_WALKABLE is ticked on the displacement this trace hit.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::IsDispSurfaceWalkable()
```

#### CGameTrace::PhysicsBone

Returns the physics bone this trace hit if it hit an entity.

```cpp
int CGameTrace::PhysicsBone()
```

#### CGameTrace::Plane

```cpp
handle CGameTrace::Plane()
```

#### CGameTrace::StartPos

Gets the trace's start position.

```cpp
Vector CGameTrace::StartPos()
```

#### CGameTrace::StartSolid

Returns whether the trace started within a solid.

```cpp
bool CGameTrace::StartSolid()
```

#### CGameTrace::Surface

```cpp
handle CGameTrace::Surface()
```

## CGlobalState

Global state system.

### Functions

#### CGlobalState::AddGlobal

Adds a new global with a specific map name and state. Returns its index.

```cpp
int CGlobalState::AddGlobal(string, string, int)
```

#### CGlobalState::AddToCounter

Adds to the counter of the specified global.

```cpp
int CGlobalState::AddToCounter(int, int)
```

#### CGlobalState::GetCounter

Gets the counter of the specified global.

```cpp
int CGlobalState::GetCounter(int)
```

#### CGlobalState::GetIndex

Gets the index of the specified global name. Returns -1 if it does not exist.

```cpp
int CGlobalState::GetIndex(string)
```

#### CGlobalState::GetState

Gets the state of the specified global.

```cpp
int CGlobalState::GetState(int)
```

#### CGlobalState::SetCounter

Sets the counter of the specified global.

```cpp
void CGlobalState::SetCounter(int, int)
```

#### CGlobalState::SetState

Sets the state of the specified global.

```cpp
void CGlobalState::SetState(int, int)
```

## CGlobalSys

GlobalSys

### Functions

#### CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheck

returns true if the command line param was used, otherwise false.

```cpp
bool CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheck(string)
```

#### CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheckFloat

returns the command line param as a float.

```cpp
float CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheckFloat(string)
```

#### CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheckInt

returns the command line param as an int.

```cpp
int CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheckInt(string)
```

#### CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheckStr

returns the command line param as a string.

```cpp
string CGlobalSys::CommandLineCheckStr(string)
```

#### CGlobalSys::GetCommandLine

returns the command line

```cpp
string CGlobalSys::GetCommandLine()
```

## CHL2_Player

The HL2 player entity.

### Functions

#### CHL2_Player::AddAnimStateLayer

Adds a custom sequence index as a misc. layer for the singleplayer anim state, wtih parameters for blending in/out, setting the playback rate, holding the animation at the end, and only playing when the player is still.

```cpp
void CHL2_Player::AddAnimStateLayer(int, float, float, float, bool, bool)
```

#### CHL2_Player::AddAuxPower

Adds to the player's available aux power.

```cpp
void CHL2_Player::AddAuxPower(float)
```

#### CHL2_Player::AddCustomSuitDevice

Adds a custom suit device ID. (1-3)

```cpp
void CHL2_Player::AddCustomSuitDevice(int)
```

#### CHL2_Player::GetAuxPower

Gets the player's available aux power.

```cpp
float CHL2_Player::GetAuxPower()
```

#### CHL2_Player::GetFlashlightBattery

Gets the energy available in the player's flashlight. If the legacy (aux power-based) flashlight is enabled, this returns the aux power.

```cpp
float CHL2_Player::GetFlashlightBattery()
```

#### CHL2_Player::InitCustomSuitDevice

Initializes a custom suit device. (just sets drain rate for now)

```cpp
void CHL2_Player::InitCustomSuitDevice(int, float)
```

#### CHL2_Player::IsCustomSuitDeviceActive

Checks if a custom suit device is active.

```cpp
bool CHL2_Player::IsCustomSuitDeviceActive(int)
```

#### CHL2_Player::RemoveAuxPower

Removes from the player's available aux power.

```cpp
bool CHL2_Player::RemoveAuxPower(float)
```

#### CHL2_Player::RemoveCustomSuitDevice

Removes a custom suit device ID. (1-3)

```cpp
void CHL2_Player::RemoveCustomSuitDevice(int)
```

#### CHL2_Player::SetAuxPower

Sets the player's available aux power.

```cpp
void CHL2_Player::SetAuxPower(float)
```

## CLocalize

Accesses functions related to localization strings.

### Functions

#### CLocalize::AddStringAsUTF8

Adds a new localized token as a UTF-8 string (not Unicode).

```cpp
void CLocalize::AddStringAsUTF8(string, string)
```

#### CLocalize::GetTokenAsUTF8

Gets the current language's token as a UTF-8 string (not Unicode).

```cpp
string CLocalize::GetTokenAsUTF8(string)
```

## CLogicExternalData

An entity which loads keyvalues from an external data file.

### Functions

#### CLogicExternalData::GetKeyValueBlock

Gets the current external data block expressed in CScriptKeyValues.

```cpp
handle CLogicExternalData::GetKeyValueBlock()
```

#### CLogicExternalData::GetKeyValues

Gets the external data expressed in CScriptKeyValues.

```cpp
handle CLogicExternalData::GetKeyValues()
```

#### CLogicExternalData::LoadFile

Loads external data from the external file.

```cpp
void CLogicExternalData::LoadFile()
```

#### CLogicExternalData::SaveFile

Saves the external data to the external file.

```cpp
void CLogicExternalData::SaveFile()
```

#### CLogicExternalData::SetKeyValueBlock

Sets the current external data block from a CScriptKeyValues object.

```cpp
void CLogicExternalData::SetKeyValueBlock(handle)
```

#### CLogicExternalData::SetKeyValues

Sets the external data from a CScriptKeyValues object.

```cpp
void CLogicExternalData::SetKeyValues(handle)
```

## CMapbaseSystem

All-purpose Mapbase system primarily used for map-specific files.

### Functions

#### CMapbaseSystem::AddManifestFile

Loads a manifest file.

```cpp
void CMapbaseSystem::AddManifestFile(string)
```

#### CMapbaseSystem::GetModName

Gets the name of the mod. This is the name which shows up on Steam, RPC, etc.

```cpp
string CMapbaseSystem::GetModName()
```

#### CMapbaseSystem::IsCoreMapbase

Indicates whether this is one of the original Mapbase mods or just a separate mod using its code.

```cpp
bool CMapbaseSystem::IsCoreMapbase()
```

#### CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomActbusyFile

Loads a custom actbusy file.

```cpp
void CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomActbusyFile(string)
```

#### CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomLocalizationFile

Loads a custom localization file.

```cpp
void CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomLocalizationFile(string)
```

#### CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomSoundscriptFile

Loads a custom soundscript file.

```cpp
void CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomSoundscriptFile(string)
```

#### CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomSurfacePropsFile

Loads a custom surface properties file.

```cpp
void CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomSurfacePropsFile(string)
```

#### CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomTalkerFile

Loads a custom talker file.

```cpp
void CMapbaseSystem::LoadCustomTalkerFile(string)
```

## CNPC_Citizen

npc_citizen from Half-Life 2

### Functions

#### CNPC_Citizen::CanHeal

Returns true if this citizen is a medic or ammo resupplier currently able to heal/give ammo.

```cpp
bool CNPC_Citizen::CanHeal()
```

#### CNPC_Citizen::GetCitizenType

Gets the citizen's type. 1 = Downtrodden, 2 = Refugee, 3 = Rebel, 4 = Unique

```cpp
int CNPC_Citizen::GetCitizenType()
```

#### CNPC_Citizen::IsAmmoResupplier

Returns true if this citizen is an ammo resupplier.

```cpp
bool CNPC_Citizen::IsAmmoResupplier()
```

#### CNPC_Citizen::IsMedic

Returns true if this citizen is a medic.

```cpp
bool CNPC_Citizen::IsMedic()
```

#### CNPC_Citizen::SetCitizenType

Sets the citizen's type. 1 = Downtrodden, 2 = Refugee, 3 = Rebel, 4 = Unique

```cpp
void CNPC_Citizen::SetCitizenType(int)
```

### Hooks

#### CNPC_Citizen -> SelectModel

Called when a citizen is selecting a random model. 'model_path' is the directory of the selected model and 'model_head' is the name. The 'gender' parameter uses the 'GENDER_' constants and is based only on the citizen's random head spawnflags. If a full model path string is returned, it will be used as the model instead.

```cpp
string CNPC_Citizen -> SelectModel(string [model_path], string [model_head], int [gender])
```

## CNetMsg

Network messages

### Functions

#### CNetMsg::GetNumBitsWritten

```cpp
int CNetMsg::GetNumBitsWritten()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadAngle

```cpp
float CNetMsg::ReadAngle()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadAngles

```cpp
Vector CNetMsg::ReadAngles()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadBool

```cpp
bool CNetMsg::ReadBool()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadByte

```cpp
int CNetMsg::ReadByte()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadChar

```cpp
int CNetMsg::ReadChar()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadCoord

```cpp
float CNetMsg::ReadCoord()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadEHandle

```cpp
handle CNetMsg::ReadEHandle()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadEntity

```cpp
handle CNetMsg::ReadEntity()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadFloat

```cpp
float CNetMsg::ReadFloat()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadInt

```cpp
int CNetMsg::ReadInt(int)
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadLong

```cpp
int CNetMsg::ReadLong()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadNormal

```cpp
float CNetMsg::ReadNormal()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadShort

```cpp
int CNetMsg::ReadShort()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadString

```cpp
string CNetMsg::ReadString()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadUInt

```cpp
int CNetMsg::ReadUInt(int)
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadVec3Coord

```cpp
Vector CNetMsg::ReadVec3Coord()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadVec3Normal

```cpp
Vector CNetMsg::ReadVec3Normal()
```

#### CNetMsg::ReadWord

```cpp
int CNetMsg::ReadWord()
```

#### CNetMsg::Receive

Set custom network message callback

```cpp
void CNetMsg::Receive(string, handle)
```

#### CNetMsg::Reset

Reset the current network message buffer

```cpp
void CNetMsg::Reset()
```

#### CNetMsg::Send

Send a custom network message from the server to the client (max 252 bytes)

```cpp
void CNetMsg::Send(handle, bool)
```

#### CNetMsg::SendEntityMessage

Send a message from a server side entity to its client side counterpart

```cpp
void CNetMsg::SendEntityMessage(handle, bool)
```

#### CNetMsg::SendUserMessage

Send a usermessage from the server to the client

```cpp
void CNetMsg::SendUserMessage(handle, string, bool)
```

#### CNetMsg::Start

Start writing new custom network message

```cpp
void CNetMsg::Start(string)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteAngle

8 bit unsigned char

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteAngle(float)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteAngles

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteAngles(Vector)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteBool

1 bit

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteBool(bool)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteByte

8 bit unsigned char

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteByte(int)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteChar

8 bit char

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteChar(int)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteCoord

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteCoord(float)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteEHandle

32 bit long

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteEHandle(handle)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteEntity

11 bit (entindex)

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteEntity(handle)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteFloat

32 bit float

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteFloat(float)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteInt

variable bit signed int

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteInt(int, int)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteLong

32 bit long

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteLong(int)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteNormal

12 bit

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteNormal(float)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteShort

16 bit short

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteShort(int)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteString

max 512 bytes at once

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteString(string)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteUInt

variable bit unsigned int

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteUInt(int, int)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteVec3Coord

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteVec3Coord(Vector)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteVec3Normal

27 bit

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteVec3Normal(Vector)
```

#### CNetMsg::WriteWord

16 bit unsigned short

```cpp
void CNetMsg::WriteWord(int)
```

## CNetPropManager

Allows reading and updating the network properties of an entity.

### Functions

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropArraySize

Returns the size of an netprop array, or -1.

```cpp
int CNetPropManager::GetPropArraySize(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropEntity

Reads an EHANDLE valued netprop (21 bit integer). Returns the script handle of the entity.

```cpp
handle CNetPropManager::GetPropEntity(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropEntityArray

Reads an EHANDLE valued netprop (21 bit integer) from an array. Returns the script handle of the entity.

```cpp
handle CNetPropManager::GetPropEntityArray(handle, string, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropFloat

Reads a float valued netprop.

```cpp
float CNetPropManager::GetPropFloat(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropFloatArray

Reads a float valued netprop from an array.

```cpp
float CNetPropManager::GetPropFloatArray(handle, string, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropInt

Reads an integer valued netprop.

```cpp
int CNetPropManager::GetPropInt(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropIntArray

Reads an integer valued netprop from an array.

```cpp
int CNetPropManager::GetPropIntArray(handle, string, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropString

Reads a string valued netprop.

```cpp
string CNetPropManager::GetPropString(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropStringArray

Reads a string valued netprop from an array.

```cpp
string CNetPropManager::GetPropStringArray(handle, string, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropType

Returns the name of the netprop type as a string.

```cpp
string CNetPropManager::GetPropType(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropVector

Reads a 3D vector valued netprop.

```cpp
Vector CNetPropManager::GetPropVector(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::GetPropVectorArray

Reads a 3D vector valued netprop from an array.

```cpp
Vector CNetPropManager::GetPropVectorArray(handle, string, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::HasProp

Checks if a netprop exists.

```cpp
bool CNetPropManager::HasProp(handle, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropEntity

Sets an EHANDLE valued netprop (21 bit integer) to reference the specified entity.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropEntity(handle, string, handle)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropEntityArray

Sets an EHANDLE valued netprop (21 bit integer) from an array to reference the specified entity.

```cpp
handle CNetPropManager::SetPropEntityArray(handle, string, handle, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropFloat

Sets a netprop to the specified float.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropFloat(handle, string, float)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropFloatArray

Sets a netprop from an array to the specified float.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropFloatArray(handle, string, float, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropInt

Sets a netprop to the specified integer.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropInt(handle, string, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropIntArray

Sets a netprop from an array to the specified integer.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropIntArray(handle, string, int, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropString

Sets a netprop to the specified string.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropString(handle, string, string)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropStringArray

Sets a netprop from an array to the specified string.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropStringArray(handle, string, string, int)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropVector

Sets a netprop to the specified vector.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropVector(handle, string, Vector)
```

#### CNetPropManager::SetPropVectorArray

Sets a netprop from an array to the specified vector.

```cpp
void CNetPropManager::SetPropVectorArray(handle, string, Vector, int)
```

## CPointCommentaryNode

Commentary nodes which play commentary in commentary mode.

### Functions

#### CPointCommentaryNode::AbortPlaying

Stops playing the node and snaps out of its camera control immediately. The game uses this function to shut down commentary while in the middle of playing a node, as it can't smoothly blend out (since the commentary entities need to be removed).

```cpp
void CPointCommentaryNode::AbortPlaying()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::CannotBeStopped

```cpp
bool CPointCommentaryNode::CannotBeStopped()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::GetCommentaryFile

```cpp
string CPointCommentaryNode::GetCommentaryFile()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::GetCommentaryType

```cpp
int CPointCommentaryNode::GetCommentaryType()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::GetFootnote

```cpp
string CPointCommentaryNode::GetFootnote()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::GetPrintName

```cpp
string CPointCommentaryNode::GetPrintName()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::GetSpeakers

```cpp
string CPointCommentaryNode::GetSpeakers()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::HasViewTarget

```cpp
bool CPointCommentaryNode::HasViewTarget()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::IsActive

```cpp
bool CPointCommentaryNode::IsActive()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::IsDisabled

```cpp
bool CPointCommentaryNode::IsDisabled()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::PreventsMovement

```cpp
bool CPointCommentaryNode::PreventsMovement()
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::SetCommentaryFile

```cpp
void CPointCommentaryNode::SetCommentaryFile(string)
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::SetCommentaryType

```cpp
void CPointCommentaryNode::SetCommentaryType(int)
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::SetDisabled

```cpp
void CPointCommentaryNode::SetDisabled(bool)
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::SetFootnote

```cpp
void CPointCommentaryNode::SetFootnote(string)
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::SetPrintName

```cpp
void CPointCommentaryNode::SetPrintName(string)
```

#### CPointCommentaryNode::SetSpeakers

```cpp
void CPointCommentaryNode::SetSpeakers(string)
```

### Hooks

#### CPointCommentaryNode -> PreStartCommentary

Called just before commentary begins. Use this to modify variables or commentary behavior before it begins. Returning false will prevent the commentary from starting.

```cpp
bool CPointCommentaryNode -> PreStartCommentary()
```

## CPropVehicle

The base class for four-wheel physics vehicles.

### Functions

#### CPropVehicle::GetPhysics

Get a vehicle's physics.

```cpp
handle CPropVehicle::GetPhysics()
```

#### CPropVehicle::GetVehicleType

Get a vehicle's type.

```cpp
int CPropVehicle::GetVehicleType()
```

## CPropVehicleDriveable

The base class for driveable vehicles.

### Functions

#### CPropVehicleDriveable::GetDriver

Get a vehicle's driver, which could be either a player or a npc_vehicledriver.

```cpp
handle CPropVehicleDriveable::GetDriver()
```

#### CPropVehicleDriveable::IsEngineOn

Check if the engine is on.

```cpp
bool CPropVehicleDriveable::IsEngineOn()
```

#### CPropVehicleDriveable::IsOverturned

Check if the vehicle is overturned.

```cpp
bool CPropVehicleDriveable::IsOverturned()
```

#### CPropVehicleDriveable::IsVehicleBodyInWater

Check if the vehicle's body is submerged in water.

```cpp
bool CPropVehicleDriveable::IsVehicleBodyInWater()
```

#### CPropVehicleDriveable::StartEngine

Start the engine.

```cpp
void CPropVehicleDriveable::StartEngine()
```

#### CPropVehicleDriveable::StopEngine

Stop the engine.

```cpp
void CPropVehicleDriveable::StopEngine()
```

## CProtoSniper

Combine sniper NPC.

### Functions

#### CProtoSniper::FindFrustratedShot

```cpp
bool CProtoSniper::FindFrustratedShot(float)
```

#### CProtoSniper::GetBulletOrigin

```cpp
Vector CProtoSniper::GetBulletOrigin()
```

#### CProtoSniper::GetBulletSpeed

```cpp
float CProtoSniper::GetBulletSpeed()
```

#### CProtoSniper::GetPaintCursor

Get the point the sniper is currently aiming at.

```cpp
Vector CProtoSniper::GetPaintCursor()
```

#### CProtoSniper::GetPositionParameter

```cpp
float CProtoSniper::GetPositionParameter(float, bool)
```

#### CProtoSniper::IsLaserOn

```cpp
bool CProtoSniper::IsLaserOn()
```

#### CProtoSniper::IsSweepingRandomly

```cpp
bool CProtoSniper::IsSweepingRandomly()
```

#### CProtoSniper::LaserOff

```cpp
void CProtoSniper::LaserOff()
```

#### CProtoSniper::LaserOn

```cpp
void CProtoSniper::LaserOn(Vector, Vector)
```

#### CProtoSniper::ScopeGlint

```cpp
void CProtoSniper::ScopeGlint()
```

## CRagdollProp

Ragdoll physics prop.

### Functions

#### CRagdollProp::GetRagdollObject

Gets the ragdoll object of the specified index.

```cpp
handle CRagdollProp::GetRagdollObject(int)
```

#### CRagdollProp::GetRagdollObjectCount

Gets the number of ragdoll objects on this ragdoll.

```cpp
int CRagdollProp::GetRagdollObjectCount()
```

#### CRagdollProp::GetSourceClassName

Gets the ragdoll's source classname.

```cpp
string CRagdollProp::GetSourceClassName()
```

#### CRagdollProp::HasPhysgunInteraction

Checks if the ragdoll has the specified interaction.

```cpp
bool CRagdollProp::HasPhysgunInteraction(string, string)
```

#### CRagdollProp::SetSourceClassName

Sets the ragdoll's source classname.

```cpp
void CRagdollProp::SetSourceClassName(string)
```

## CSceneEntity

Choreographed scene which controls animation and/or dialog on one or more actors.

### Functions

#### CSceneEntity::AddBroadcastTeamTarget

Adds a team (by index) to the broadcast list

```cpp
void CSceneEntity::AddBroadcastTeamTarget(int)
```

#### CSceneEntity::EstimateLength

Returns length of this scene in seconds.

```cpp
float CSceneEntity::EstimateLength()
```

#### CSceneEntity::FindNamedEntity

given an entity reference, such as !target, get actual entity from scene object

```cpp
handle CSceneEntity::FindNamedEntity(string)
```

#### CSceneEntity::IsPaused

If this scene is currently paused.

```cpp
bool CSceneEntity::IsPaused()
```

#### CSceneEntity::IsPlayingBack

If this scene is currently playing.

```cpp
bool CSceneEntity::IsPlayingBack()
```

#### CSceneEntity::LoadSceneFromString

given a dummy scene name and a vcd string, load the scene

```cpp
bool CSceneEntity::LoadSceneFromString(string, string)
```

#### CSceneEntity::RemoveBroadcastTeamTarget

Removes a team (by index) from the broadcast list

```cpp
void CSceneEntity::RemoveBroadcastTeamTarget(int)
```

## CSceneListManager

Stores choreo scenes and cleans them up when a later scene in the list begins playing.

### Functions

#### CSceneListManager::GetScene

Gets the specified scene index from this manager.

```cpp
handle CSceneListManager::GetScene(int)
```

## CScriptKeyValues

Wrapper class over KeyValues instance

### Functions

#### CScriptKeyValues::FindKey

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, find a KeyValues object associated with the key name

```cpp
handle CScriptKeyValues::FindKey(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::FindOrCreateKey

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, find or create a KeyValues object associated with the key name

```cpp
handle CScriptKeyValues::FindOrCreateKey(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetBool

Given a KeyValues object, return its own associated bool value

```cpp
bool CScriptKeyValues::GetBool()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetFirstSubKey

Given a KeyValues object, return the first sub key object

```cpp
handle CScriptKeyValues::GetFirstSubKey()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetFloat

Given a KeyValues object, return its own associated float value

```cpp
float CScriptKeyValues::GetFloat()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetInt

Given a KeyValues object, return its own associated integer value

```cpp
int CScriptKeyValues::GetInt()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyBool

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, return associated bool value

```cpp
bool CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyBool(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyFloat

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, return associated float value

```cpp
float CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyFloat(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyInt

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, return associated integer value

```cpp
int CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyInt(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyString

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, return associated string value

```cpp
string CScriptKeyValues::GetKeyString(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetName

Given a KeyValues object, return its name

```cpp
string CScriptKeyValues::GetName()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetNextKey

Given a KeyValues object, return the next key object in a sub key group

```cpp
handle CScriptKeyValues::GetNextKey()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::GetString

Given a KeyValues object, return its own associated string value

```cpp
string CScriptKeyValues::GetString()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::IsKeyEmpty

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, return true if key name has no value

```cpp
bool CScriptKeyValues::IsKeyEmpty(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::ReleaseKeyValues

Given a root KeyValues object, release its contents

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::ReleaseKeyValues()
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetBool

Given a KeyValues object, set its own associated bool value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetBool(bool)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetFloat

Given a KeyValues object, set its own associated float value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetFloat(float)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetInt

Given a KeyValues object, set its own associated integer value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetInt(int)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyBool

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, set associated bool value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyBool(string, bool)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyFloat

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, set associated float value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyFloat(string, float)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyInt

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, set associated integer value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyInt(string, int)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyString

Given a KeyValues object and a key name, set associated string value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetKeyString(string, string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetName

Given a KeyValues object, set its name

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetName(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SetString

Given a KeyValues object, set its own associated string value

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SetString(string)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::SubKeysToTable

Converts to script table.

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::SubKeysToTable(handle)
```

#### CScriptKeyValues::TableToSubKeys

Converts a script table to KeyValues.

```cpp
void CScriptKeyValues::TableToSubKeys(handle)
```

## CSound

A sound NPCs can hear.

### Functions

#### CSound::DoesSoundExpire

Returns true if the sound expires.

```cpp
bool CSound::DoesSoundExpire()
```

#### CSound::GetOwner

Gets the sound's owner.

```cpp
handle CSound::GetOwner()
```

#### CSound::GetSoundOrigin

Gets the sound's origin.

```cpp
Vector CSound::GetSoundOrigin()
```

#### CSound::GetSoundReactOrigin

Gets the sound's react origin.

```cpp
Vector CSound::GetSoundReactOrigin()
```

#### CSound::GetTarget

Gets the sound's target.

```cpp
handle CSound::GetTarget()
```

#### CSound::IsScent

Returns true if this is a type of scent (as opposed to a sound).

```cpp
bool CSound::IsScent()
```

#### CSound::IsSound

Returns true if this is a type of sound (as opposed to a scent).

```cpp
bool CSound::IsSound()
```

#### CSound::IsSoundType

Returns true if the sound type is the specified type.

```cpp
bool CSound::IsSoundType(int)
```

#### CSound::OccludedVolume

Gets the sound's occluded volume.

```cpp
float CSound::OccludedVolume()
```

#### CSound::Reset

Clears the volume, type, and origin for the sound without actually removing it.

```cpp
void CSound::Reset()
```

#### CSound::SetSoundOrigin

Sets the sound's origin.

```cpp
void CSound::SetSoundOrigin(Vector)
```

#### CSound::SoundChannel

Gets the sound's channel.

```cpp
int CSound::SoundChannel()
```

#### CSound::SoundContext

Gets the sound type with contexts only.

```cpp
int CSound::SoundContext()
```

#### CSound::SoundExpirationTime

Gets the sound's expiration time.

```cpp
float CSound::SoundExpirationTime()
```

#### CSound::SoundType

Gets the raw sound type.

```cpp
int CSound::SoundType()
```

#### CSound::SoundTypeNoContext

Gets the sound type with contexts excluded.

```cpp
int CSound::SoundTypeNoContext()
```

#### CSound::ValidateOwner

Returns true if the sound's owner is still valid or if the sound never had an owner in the first place.

```cpp
bool CSound::ValidateOwner()
```

#### CSound::Volume

Gets the sound's volume.

```cpp
int CSound::Volume()
```

## CTakeDamageInfo

Damage information handler.

### Functions

#### CTakeDamageInfo::AddDamage

Adds to the damage.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::AddDamage(float)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::AddDamageType

Adds to the damage type.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::AddDamageType(int)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::BaseDamageIsValid

Checks if the base damage is valid.

```cpp
bool CTakeDamageInfo::BaseDamageIsValid()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetAmmoName

Gets the ammo type name.

```cpp
string CTakeDamageInfo::GetAmmoName()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetAmmoType

Gets the ammo type.

```cpp
int CTakeDamageInfo::GetAmmoType()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetAttacker

Gets the attacker.

```cpp
handle CTakeDamageInfo::GetAttacker()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetBaseDamage

Gets the base damage.

```cpp
float CTakeDamageInfo::GetBaseDamage()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamage

Gets the damage.

```cpp
float CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamage()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageBonus

Gets the damage bonus.

```cpp
float CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageBonus()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageCustom

Gets the damage custom.

```cpp
int CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageCustom()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageForce

Gets the damage force.

```cpp
Vector CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageForce()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamagePosition

Gets the damage position.

```cpp
Vector CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamagePosition()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageStats

Gets the damage stats.

```cpp
int CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageStats()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageType

Gets the damage type.

```cpp
int CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamageType()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamagedOtherPlayers

Gets whether other players have been damaged.

```cpp
int CTakeDamageInfo::GetDamagedOtherPlayers()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetInflictor

Gets the inflictor.

```cpp
handle CTakeDamageInfo::GetInflictor()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetMaxDamage

Gets the max damage.

```cpp
float CTakeDamageInfo::GetMaxDamage()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetPlayerPenetrationCount

Gets the player penetration count.

```cpp
int CTakeDamageInfo::GetPlayerPenetrationCount()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetReportedPosition

Gets the reported damage position.

```cpp
Vector CTakeDamageInfo::GetReportedPosition()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::GetWeapon

Gets the weapon.

```cpp
handle CTakeDamageInfo::GetWeapon()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::IsForceFriendlyFire

Gets force friendly fire.

```cpp
bool CTakeDamageInfo::IsForceFriendlyFire()
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::ScaleDamage

Scales the damage.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::ScaleDamage(float)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::ScaleDamageForce

Scales the damage force.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::ScaleDamageForce(float)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetAmmoType

Sets the ammo type.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetAmmoType(int)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetAttacker

Sets the attacker.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetAttacker(handle)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamage

Sets the damage.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamage(float)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageBonus

Sets the damage bonus.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageBonus(float)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageCustom

Sets the damage custom.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageCustom(int)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageForce

Sets the damage force.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageForce(Vector)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamagePosition

Sets the damage position.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamagePosition(Vector)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageStats

Sets the damage stats.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageStats(int)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageType

Sets the damage type.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamageType(int)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamagedOtherPlayers

Sets whether other players have been damaged.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetDamagedOtherPlayers(int)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetForceFriendlyFire

Sets force friendly fire.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetForceFriendlyFire(bool)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetInflictor

Sets the inflictor.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetInflictor(handle)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetMaxDamage

Sets the max damage.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetMaxDamage(float)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetPlayerPenetrationCount

Sets the player penetration count.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetPlayerPenetrationCount(int)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetReportedPosition

Sets the reported damage position.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetReportedPosition(Vector)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SetWeapon

Sets the weapon.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SetWeapon(handle)
```

#### CTakeDamageInfo::SubtractDamage

Removes from the damage.

```cpp
void CTakeDamageInfo::SubtractDamage(float)
```

## CTriggerCamera

Server-side camera entity

### Functions

#### CTriggerCamera::GetFov

get camera's current fov setting as integer

```cpp
int CTriggerCamera::GetFov()
```

#### CTriggerCamera::SetFov

set camera's current fov in integer degrees and fov change rate as float

```cpp
void CTriggerCamera::SetFov(int, float)
```

## CUserCmd

### Functions

#### CUserCmd::GetButtons

Input button state.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetButtons()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetCommandNumber

For matching server and client commands for debugging.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetCommandNumber()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetForwardMove

```cpp
float CUserCmd::GetForwardMove()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetImpulse

Impulse command issued.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetImpulse()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetMouseX

Mouse accum in x from create move.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetMouseX()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetMouseY

Mouse accum in y from create move.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetMouseY()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetRandomSeed

For shared random functions.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetRandomSeed()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetSideMove

```cpp
float CUserCmd::GetSideMove()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetTickCount

The tick the client created this command.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetTickCount()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetUpMove

```cpp
float CUserCmd::GetUpMove()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetViewAngles

Player instantaneous view angles.

```cpp
Vector CUserCmd::GetViewAngles()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetWeaponSelect

Current weapon id.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetWeaponSelect()
```

#### CUserCmd::GetWeaponSubtype

Current weapon subtype id.

```cpp
int CUserCmd::GetWeaponSubtype()
```

#### CUserCmd::SetButtons

Sets input button state.

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetButtons(int)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetForwardMove

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetForwardMove(float)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetImpulse

Sets impulse command issued.

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetImpulse(int)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetMouseX

Sets mouse accum in x from create move.

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetMouseX(int)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetMouseY

Sets mouse accum in y from create move.

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetMouseY(int)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetSideMove

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetSideMove(float)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetUpMove

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetUpMove(float)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetViewAngles

Sets player instantaneous view angles.

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetViewAngles(Vector)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetWeaponSelect

Sets current weapon id.

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetWeaponSelect(int)
```

#### CUserCmd::SetWeaponSubtype

Sets current weapon subtype id.

```cpp
void CUserCmd::SetWeaponSubtype(int)
```

## CWeaponCustomScripted

Special weapon class with tons of hooks

### Hooks

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> AbortReload

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> AbortReload()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> ActivityList

```cpp
handle CWeaponCustomScripted -> ActivityList()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> ActivityListCount

```cpp
int CWeaponCustomScripted -> ActivityListCount()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> AddViewKick

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> AddViewKick()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> CanDeploy

Should return true if weapon can be deployed

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> CanDeploy()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> CanHolster

Should return true if weapon can be holstered

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> CanHolster()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> CheckReload

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> CheckReload()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> Deploy

Called when weapon is being deployed

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> Deploy()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> FinishReload

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> FinishReload()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetBulletSpread

```cpp
Vector CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetBulletSpread()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetBulletSpreadForProficiency

Returns the bullet spread of a specific proficiency level. If this isn't defined, it will fall back to GetBulletSpread.

```cpp
Vector CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetBulletSpreadForProficiency(int [proficiency])
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetDefaultAnimSpeed

```cpp
float CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetDefaultAnimSpeed()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetDrawActivity

```cpp
variant CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetDrawActivity()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetFireRate

```cpp
float CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetFireRate()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMaxBurst

```cpp
int CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMaxBurst()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMaxRestTime

```cpp
float CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMaxRestTime()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMinBurst

```cpp
int CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMinBurst()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMinRestTime

```cpp
float CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetMinRestTime()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetPrimaryAttackActivity

```cpp
variant CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetPrimaryAttackActivity()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetSecondaryAttackActivity

```cpp
variant CWeaponCustomScripted -> GetSecondaryAttackActivity()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> HandleFireOnEmpty

Called when they have the attack button down but they are out of ammo. The default implementation either reloads, switches weapons, or plays an empty sound.

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> HandleFireOnEmpty()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> HasAnyAmmo

Should return true if weapon has ammo

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> HasAnyAmmo()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> HasPrimaryAmmo

Should return true if weapon has primary ammo

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> HasPrimaryAmmo()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> HasSecondaryAmmo

Should return true if weapon has secondary ammo

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> HasSecondaryAmmo()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> Holster

Called when weapon is being holstered

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> Holster(handle [switchingto])
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemBusyFrame

Called each frame by the player PostThink, if the player's not ready to attack yet

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemBusyFrame()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemHolsterFrame

Called each frame by the player PreThink, if the weapon is holstered

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemHolsterFrame()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemPostFrame

Called each frame by the player PostThink

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemPostFrame()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemPreFrame

Called each frame by the player PreThink

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> ItemPreFrame()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> PrimaryAttack

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> PrimaryAttack()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> Reload

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> Reload()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> Reload_NPC

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> Reload_NPC()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> SecondaryAttack

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> SecondaryAttack()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponIdle

Called when no buttons pressed

```cpp
void CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponIdle()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponLOSCondition

```cpp
bool CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponLOSCondition()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponMeleeAttack1Condition

```cpp
int CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponMeleeAttack1Condition()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponMeleeAttack2Condition

```cpp
int CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponMeleeAttack2Condition()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponRangeAttack1Condition

```cpp
int CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponRangeAttack1Condition()
```

#### CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponRangeAttack2Condition

```cpp
int CWeaponCustomScripted -> WeaponRangeAttack2Condition()
```

## Color

### Members

#### Color.a

Member variable for alpha. (transparency)

```cpp
char Color.a
```

#### Color.b

Member variable for blue.

```cpp
char Color.b
```

#### Color.g

Member variable for green.

```cpp
char Color.g
```

#### Color.r

Member variable for red.

```cpp
char Color.r
```

### Functions

#### Color::GetRawColor

Gets the raw color integer.

```cpp
int Color::GetRawColor()
```

#### Color::SetColor

Sets the color.

```cpp
void Color::SetColor(int, int, int, int)
```

#### Color::SetRawColor

Sets the raw color integer.

```cpp
void Color::SetRawColor(int)
```

## EmitSound_t

### Functions

#### EmitSound_t::ClearOrigin

Clears the sound's origin override if it has one.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::ClearOrigin()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetChannel

```cpp
int EmitSound_t::GetChannel()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetEmitCloseCaption

Gets whether or not the sound will emit closed captioning/subtitles.

```cpp
float EmitSound_t::GetEmitCloseCaption()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetFlags

Gets the sound's flags. See the 'SND_' set of constants.

```cpp
int EmitSound_t::GetFlags()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetOrigin

Gets the sound's origin override.

```cpp
Vector EmitSound_t::GetOrigin()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetSoundLevel

Gets the sound's level in decibels. (Note that this may not apply to soundscripts)

```cpp
int EmitSound_t::GetSoundLevel()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetSoundName

Gets the sound's file path or soundscript name.

```cpp
string EmitSound_t::GetSoundName()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetSoundScriptHandle

```cpp
int EmitSound_t::GetSoundScriptHandle()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetSoundTime

Gets the time the sound will begin, relative to Time().

```cpp
float EmitSound_t::GetSoundTime()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetSpeakerEntity

Gets the sound's original source if it is being transmitted by a microphone.

```cpp
int EmitSound_t::GetSpeakerEntity()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetSpecialDSP

```cpp
int EmitSound_t::GetSpecialDSP()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetVolume

(Note that this may not apply to soundscripts)

```cpp
float EmitSound_t::GetVolume()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetWarnOnDirectWaveReference

Gets whether or not the sound will send a message to the console if it references a direct sound file instead of a soundscript.

```cpp
float EmitSound_t::GetWarnOnDirectWaveReference()
```

#### EmitSound_t::GetWarnOnMissingCloseCaption

Gets whether or not the sound will send a message to the console if there is no corresponding closed captioning token.

```cpp
float EmitSound_t::GetWarnOnMissingCloseCaption()
```

#### EmitSound_t::HasOrigin

Returns true if the sound has an origin override.

```cpp
bool EmitSound_t::HasOrigin()
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetChannel

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetChannel(int)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetEmitCloseCaption

Sets whether or not the sound will emit closed captioning/subtitles.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetEmitCloseCaption(bool)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetFlags

Sets the sound's flags. See the 'SND_' set of constants.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetFlags(int)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetOrigin

Sets the sound's origin override.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetOrigin(Vector)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetSoundLevel

Sets the sound's level in decibels. (Note that this may not apply to soundscripts)

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetSoundLevel(int)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetSoundName

Sets the sound's file path or soundscript name.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetSoundName(string)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetSoundScriptHandle

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetSoundScriptHandle(int)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetSoundTime

Sets the time the sound will begin, relative to Time().

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetSoundTime(float)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetSpeakerEntity

Sets the sound's original source if it is being transmitted by a microphone.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetSpeakerEntity(int)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetSpecialDSP

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetSpecialDSP(int)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetVolume

(Note that this may not apply to soundscripts)

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetVolume(float)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetWarnOnDirectWaveReference

Sets whether or not the sound will send a message to the console if it references a direct sound file instead of a soundscript.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetWarnOnDirectWaveReference(bool)
```

#### EmitSound_t::SetWarnOnMissingCloseCaption

Sets whether or not the sound will send a message to the console if there is no corresponding closed captioning token.

```cpp
void EmitSound_t::SetWarnOnMissingCloseCaption(bool)
```

## FireBulletsInfo_t

### Functions

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetAdditionalIgnoreEnt

```cpp
handle FireBulletsInfo_t::GetAdditionalIgnoreEnt()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetAmmoType

```cpp
int FireBulletsInfo_t::GetAmmoType()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetAttacker

```cpp
handle FireBulletsInfo_t::GetAttacker()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDamage

Gets the damage the bullets should deal. 0 = use ammo type

```cpp
float FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDamage()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDamageForceScale

```cpp
float FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDamageForceScale()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDirShooting

```cpp
Vector FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDirShooting()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDistance

Gets the distance the bullets should travel.

```cpp
float FireBulletsInfo_t::GetDistance()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetFlags

Gets the flags the bullets should use.

```cpp
int FireBulletsInfo_t::GetFlags()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetPlayerDamage

Gets the damage the bullets should deal when hitting the player. 0 = use regular damage

```cpp
int FireBulletsInfo_t::GetPlayerDamage()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetPrimaryAttack

Gets whether the bullets came from a primary attack.

```cpp
bool FireBulletsInfo_t::GetPrimaryAttack()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetShots

Gets the number of shots which should be fired.

```cpp
int FireBulletsInfo_t::GetShots()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetSource

```cpp
Vector FireBulletsInfo_t::GetSource()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetSpread

```cpp
Vector FireBulletsInfo_t::GetSpread()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::GetTracerFreq

```cpp
int FireBulletsInfo_t::GetTracerFreq()
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetAdditionalIgnoreEnt

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetAdditionalIgnoreEnt(handle)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetAmmoType

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetAmmoType(int)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetAttacker

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetAttacker(handle)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDamage

Sets the damage the bullets should deal. 0 = use ammo type

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDamage(float)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDamageForceScale

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDamageForceScale(float)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDirShooting

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDirShooting(Vector)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDistance

Sets the distance the bullets should travel.

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetDistance(float)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetFlags

Sets the flags the bullets should use.

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetFlags(float)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetPlayerDamage

Sets the damage the bullets should deal when hitting the player. 0 = use regular damage

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetPlayerDamage(float)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetPrimaryAttack

Sets whether the bullets came from a primary attack.

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetPrimaryAttack(bool)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetShots

Sets the number of shots which should be fired.

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetShots(int)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetSource

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetSource(Vector)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetSpread

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetSpread(Vector)
```

#### FireBulletsInfo_t::SetTracerFreq

```cpp
void FireBulletsInfo_t::SetTracerFreq(int)
```

## IPhysicsObject

VPhysics object class.

### Functions

#### IPhysicsObject::ApplyForceCenter

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::ApplyForceCenter(Vector)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::ApplyForceOffset

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::ApplyForceOffset(Vector, Vector)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::ApplyTorqueCenter

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::ApplyTorqueCenter(Vector)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::EnableCollisions

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::EnableCollisions(bool)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::EnableDrag

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::EnableDrag(bool)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::EnableGravity

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::EnableGravity(bool)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::EnableMotion

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::EnableMotion(bool)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::GetInertia

```cpp
Vector IPhysicsObject::GetInertia()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::GetInvInertia

```cpp
Vector IPhysicsObject::GetInvInertia()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::GetInvMass

```cpp
float IPhysicsObject::GetInvMass()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::GetMass

```cpp
float IPhysicsObject::GetMass()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::GetName

```cpp
string IPhysicsObject::GetName()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsAsleep

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsAsleep()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsAttachedToConstraint

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsAttachedToConstraint(bool)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsCollisionEnabled

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsCollisionEnabled()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsDragEnabled

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsDragEnabled()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsFluid

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsFluid()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsGravityEnabled

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsGravityEnabled()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsHinged

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsHinged()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsMotionEnabled

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsMotionEnabled()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsMoveable

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsMoveable()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsStatic

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsStatic()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::IsTrigger

```cpp
bool IPhysicsObject::IsTrigger()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::SetInertia

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::SetInertia(Vector)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::SetMass

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::SetMass(float)
```

#### IPhysicsObject::Sleep

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::Sleep()
```

#### IPhysicsObject::Wake

```cpp
void IPhysicsObject::Wake()
```

## Quaternion

A quaternion.

### Members

#### Quaternion.w

The quaternion's scalar component.

```cpp
float Quaternion.w
```

#### Quaternion.x

The quaternion's i axis component.

```cpp
float Quaternion.x
```

#### Quaternion.y

The quaternion's j axis component.

```cpp
float Quaternion.y
```

#### Quaternion.z

The quaternion's k axis component.

```cpp
float Quaternion.z
```

### Functions

#### Quaternion::Init

Creates a quaternion with the given values.

```cpp
void Quaternion::Init(float, float, float, float)
```

## Vector

Basic 3-float Vector class.

### Members

#### Vector.x

The vector's X coordinate on the cartesian X axis.

```cpp
float Vector.x
```

#### Vector.y

The vector's Y coordinate on the cartesian Y axis.

```cpp
float Vector.y
```

#### Vector.z

The vector's Z coordinate on the cartesian Z axis.

```cpp
float Vector.z
```

### Functions

#### Vector::Cross

Return the vector product of two vectors.

```cpp
float Vector::Cross(vector)
```

#### Vector::Dot

Return the dot/scalar product of two vectors.

```cpp
float Vector::Dot(vector)
```

#### Vector::Length

Return the vector's length.

```cpp
float Vector::Length()
```

#### Vector::Length2D

Return the vector's 2D length.

```cpp
float Vector::Length2D()
```

#### Vector::Length2DSqr

Return the vector's squared 2D length.

```cpp
float Vector::Length2DSqr()
```

#### Vector::LengthSqr

Return the vector's squared length.

```cpp
float Vector::LengthSqr()
```

#### Vector::Norm

Normalize the vector in place.

```cpp
void Vector::Norm()
```

#### Vector::Normalized

Return a normalized version of the vector.

```cpp
float Vector::Normalized()
```

#### Vector::Scale

Scale the vector's magnitude and return the result.

```cpp
vector Vector::Scale(float)
```

#### Vector::ToKVString

Return a vector as a string in KeyValue form, without separation commas.

```cpp
string Vector::ToKVString()
```

## cplane_t

## csurface_t

### Functions

#### csurface_t::Name

```cpp
string csurface_t::Name()
```

#### csurface_t::SurfaceProps

The surface's properties.

```cpp
handle csurface_t::SurfaceProps()
```

## matrix3x4_t

A 3x4 matrix transform.

### Functions

#### matrix3x4_t::Init

Creates a matrix where the X axis = forward, the Y axis = left, and the Z axis = up.

```cpp
void matrix3x4_t::Init(Vector, Vector, Vector, Vector)
```

## scriptanimevent_t

### Functions

#### scriptanimevent_t::GetCycle

```cpp
float scriptanimevent_t::GetCycle()
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::GetEvent

```cpp
int scriptanimevent_t::GetEvent()
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::GetEventTime

```cpp
float scriptanimevent_t::GetEventTime()
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::GetOptions

```cpp
string scriptanimevent_t::GetOptions()
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::GetSource

Gets the event's source entity.

```cpp
handle scriptanimevent_t::GetSource()
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::GetType

Gets the event's type flags. See the 'AE_TYPE_' set of constants for valid flags.

```cpp
int scriptanimevent_t::GetType()
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::SetCycle

```cpp
void scriptanimevent_t::SetCycle(float)
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::SetEvent

```cpp
void scriptanimevent_t::SetEvent(int)
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::SetEventTime

```cpp
void scriptanimevent_t::SetEventTime(float)
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::SetOptions

```cpp
void scriptanimevent_t::SetOptions(string)
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::SetSource

Sets the event's source entity.

```cpp
void scriptanimevent_t::SetSource(handle)
```

#### scriptanimevent_t::SetType

Sets the event's type flags. See the 'AE_TYPE_' set of constants for valid flags.

```cpp
void scriptanimevent_t::SetType(int)
```

## surfacedata_t

### Functions

#### surfacedata_t::GetFriction

```cpp
float surfacedata_t::GetFriction()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetJumpFactor

```cpp
float surfacedata_t::GetJumpFactor()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetMaterialChar

```cpp
char surfacedata_t::GetMaterialChar()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundBreak

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundBreak()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundBulletImpact

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundBulletImpact()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundImpactHard

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundImpactHard()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundImpactSoft

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundImpactSoft()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundRolling

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundRolling()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundScrapeRough

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundScrapeRough()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundScrapeSmooth

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundScrapeSmooth()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundStepLeft

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundStepLeft()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundStepRight

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundStepRight()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetSoundStrain

```cpp
string surfacedata_t::GetSoundStrain()
```

#### surfacedata_t::GetThickness

```cpp
float surfacedata_t::GetThickness()
```
